7 Common Mistakes To Avoid While Developing Chatbots - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies GET and POST requests using Python Socket Programming in C/C++ Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Working with csv files in Python Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Types of Software Testing 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Working with PDF files in Python Frontend vs Backend XML parsing in Python Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Supervised and Unsupervised learning OOPs | Object Oriented Design Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Genetic Algorithms Getting started with Machine Learning Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Table of Contents Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies GET and POST requests using Python Socket Programming in C/C++ Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Working with csv files in Python Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Types of Software Testing 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Working with PDF files in Python Frontend vs Backend XML parsing in Python Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Supervised and Unsupervised learning OOPs | Object Oriented Design Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Genetic Algorithms Getting started with Machine Learning Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Improve Article Save Article Like Article 7 Common Mistakes To Avoid While Developing Chatbots Last Updated : 28 Nov, 2021 Chatbots are available in every nook and corner of business or educational sectors with their ability to imitate human-like conversations and execute them successfully across various devices. This is incredibly helping a lot of customers and business owners too since both of them can now interact in a time-saving plus cost-effective manner. In fact, those who were once stuck with the question, ?What is a chatbot?? are now curious to know about the process of creating a chatbot and connecting it well with their websites or apps to engage customers by providing them with what they really want in terms of services. Indeed, with the increasing demand for such user-friendly and interactive chatbots, many development teams are constantly putting their efforts to build a chatbot that can do all tasks ? from generating leads to serving customers. But only a few of them succeed in designing those chatbot/chatbots which can be adopted by customers in a proactive and effortless manner. Thinking about the actual reason? It is ? mistakes while building them. Here are 7 common mistakes to avoid while developing chatbots responding well to the queries of the customers raised by them either on a website or a mobile app:   1. Keeping the Design of the Chatbot Generic A generic chatbot design may fail a chatbot at times of personalizing with users of a particular brand or a company. This is because such chatbots aren?t interacting with users in a way that makes them feel they are given a priority. And such absence of much-needed personalization will: create a poor customer experience. lead to no fulfillment of in-depth or domain-specific requirements of a company since generic chatbots lack data that can handle customer dealing.  Thus, instead of keeping the design of your chatbot generic, you must get involved in such a chatbot development process which can blur the line between a human being and a chatbot not only handling customers of different sectors well but also understanding what they are really talking about. All this will improve customer experience and it?s not bad for you from a business perspective!! 2. Launching a Bot in Absence of a Pre-decided Goal Imagine your friend say a girl is running a business without any knowledge about the choices of its customers!! Will she achieve goals planned by her like more personalized brand engagement, profitable lead generation? Obviously not!! Similarly, you will get nothing from a bot launched without a pre-decided goal because: Now, your chatbot will end up doing something impractical as it won?t understand the user?s problem, nor communicate with relevant responses. Also, if your company or you have adapted any marketing strategy and implemented it via chatbot, it won?t reap fruits in terms of revenue or sales growth as a chatbot isn?t willing to pay attention to metrics which matter the most in the business world.     So, from now, plan first why are you taking interest in deploying a chatbot for your business requirements and then launch it only after you find it capable enough to adapt to changing requirements of customers of variable preferences.  3. Not Selecting the Right Use Case Selecting the right use case from the list of chatbot use cases is really important. If you select a wrong use case, then it may sink your businesses in the long run because with such a use-case, your business will fail to achieve goals hierarchically structured in accordance with the interest of users and the employees working harder to increase sales for your businesses. Right now, there are three use cases for which your chatbot can produce profitable results: Customer service in which chatbots were able to replace 36 percent of US customer service staff (according to business insider). Marketing automation in which chatbots have increased e-commerce sales. B2E i.e. Business-to-Employee in which chatbots have successfully automated certain HR responsibilities.  Thus, instead of making the selection of wrong use cases while developing your chatbots, you must select anyone mentioned in the above points for better sales and boost up the satisfaction level of customers interested in the services your business is offering to them.  4. Avoiding the Rules of Conversation Conversational rules in chatbots must be followed because such rules make the interaction with your users not only interesting but engaging too. With such rules, the personality of your chatbots will sound appealing thereby making your audience feel flexible to share information like requirements and challenges they are facing while making decisions related to the services of your brand. Take a look at some of the rules with which your chatbot can handle even the complex requirements of your audience: Keep the tone of your chatbot, when it is conversing, simple and less-complicated like using short and simple sentences instead of long ones. Aim towards including visual elements while designing the personality of a chatbot. These elements include GIFs, emojis, or video reels of shorter duration. Train your chatbots in a way that they can reach the core aspect of the user?s thinking as soon as possible. With this, they won?t be wasting time beating around the bushes. Rather than selecting chatbots that close the conversations with one-word answers, use voice chatbots that can mimic humans and are active towards welcoming and closing messages. Such communication develops a chatbot?s tendency to sound more human while interacting with an audience of variable preferences and problem statements.  5. Planning to Launch the Chatbot Without Testing It Launching a chatbot without any prior testing can be counted as one of the reasons for the failure of your chatbot because it won?t be able to cater to complex requirements a business may encounter while scaling itself. Moreover, such chatbots, that are left untested, will create a negative customer experience for sure due to their inabilities of deriving meaningful solutions in real-time.  To avoid the consequences of those unskilled chatbots, what businesses can do is release the beta version just like Amazon and Google. This will let those businesses know not only the common mistakes in chatbot design but also give them a picture of users? opinions regarding the content they have accessed through those chatbots. And if possible, all such irregularities found in the beta version will be identified and corrected thereby managing the expectations of users in a time-saving and effortless manner. 6. Ignorance Towards Tracking the Chatbot?s Performance A chatbot?s performance needs to be tracked as it will prevent a chatbot from losing focus much needed to interact with customers. And to track the performance precisely and scalably, various chatbot KPIs can be used. They are sufficient enough to make your chatbot user-centric as well as effective towards proposing solutions to the industry-relevant problem statements. A few of those KPIs or key performance indicators are: Chatbot Response Volume ? tells the number of responses your chatbot can produce for a certain period. Goal Completion Rate ? specifies what the success rate of your chatbot is while accomplishing a set of goals. Retention Rate ? signifies the number of users retained by your chatbot with its frequency of solving queries. Non-Response Rate ? notifies how many times your chatbot (like button-based or AI-based) failed while responding to its target audience. With all the mentioned-above KPIs, it becomes much flexible to measure chatbot effectiveness at times a particular set of customers have some issues which need to be answered with appropriate and executable solutions. Or, identifying the customers who?re still not satisfied with the offerings your businesses propose in real-time.    7. Focusing Too Much on Creating Flow-based Chatbots   Flow-based chatbots, in simpler terms, can?t adapt to variable tones of conversation because they usually follow a communication approach that is pre-defined. Though you can find traces of Artificial Intelligence in their ways of working, yet there are other challenges with them like: Negative customer experience since they fail to personalize with customers on grounds of emotions. Less analytical capability and data security because of which they are likely rejected by businesses. Low-quality relevant responses that waste the time of businesses and customers. Hence, it is essential to create a chatbot not bound to some pre-defined rules as they fail to adapt themselves to frequently-changing emotions of users segmented by businesses in accordance with age, gender, and level of understanding things happening around. With such an initiative, customers won?t get irritated with the same responses for the questions they ask at different intervals of time. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous 8 Best JetBrains IDEs for Developers Recommended Articles Page : 7 Common Mistakes That Beginners Should Avoid While Learning to Code 25, Jun 20 5 Mistakes To Avoid While Choosing Online Certifications 24, Aug 20 7 Mistakes You Should Avoid While Building a Django Application 03, Jun 21 5 Mistakes to Avoid While Learning Artificial Intelligence 31, Jul 21 7 Common Programming Mistakes That Every Beginner Must Avoid 27, Oct 19 Common Website Navigation Mistakes You Should Avoid 11, Feb 21 6 Most Common Bootstrap Mistakes to Avoid in Web Development 28, Feb 21 5 Mistakes That Every Engineering Student Must Avoid 05, Sep 19 Mistakes You Must Avoid During Work From Home 17, May 20 13 Mistakes To Avoid During Technical Interview 18, Jul 20 5 Things You Should Avoid While Using Social Media 19, Oct 20 Some Basic Terms Of Chatbots 02, Jan 20 What are the Advantages and Disadvantages of Chatbots in Business? 20, Apr 20 10 Most Interesting Chatbots in the World 30, Apr 20 Why Python Is Used For Developing Automated Trading Strategy? 07, Jan 20 Top 5 Common Mistakes in Technical On-site Interviews 23, Nov 15 11 Most Common Mistakes That Android Developers Make 25, Apr 21 10 mistakes people tend to do in an Interview 22, Sep 15 7 Resume Mistakes Made By Software Engineers as a Fresher 08, Oct 21 Most Critical Mistakes & Tips in Competitive Programming 10, Nov 21 Man In The Middle Attack | Avoid Falling Victim to MITM 21, May 19 6 Types of Anti Patterns to Avoid in Software Development 15, Jan 21 How to Earn Money While Studying in College through Coding? 09, May 20 Things to Keep in Mind While Choosing the College For Graduation 08, Sep 20 Article Contributed By : ashugupta917gfg @ashugupta917gfg Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in GBlog 7 Most In-Demand and High Paying Programming Jobs Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Top 10 Libraries Every Java Developer Should Know 7 Basic Statistics Concepts For Data Science Advantages and Disadvantages of Internet More related articles in GBlog ML | Underfitting and Overfitting Virtualization In Cloud Computing and Types Get Hired With GeeksforGeeks and Win Exciting Rewards! GeeksforGeeks School Top Programming Languages for Android App Development × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !