8 Best JetBrains IDEs for Developers - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies GET and POST requests using Python Socket Programming in C/C++ Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Working with csv files in Python Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Types of Software Testing 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Working with PDF files in Python Frontend vs Backend XML parsing in Python Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Supervised and Unsupervised learning OOPs | Object Oriented Design Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Genetic Algorithms Getting started with Machine Learning Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Table of Contents Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies GET and POST requests using Python Socket Programming in C/C++ Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Working with csv files in Python Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Types of Software Testing 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Working with PDF files in Python Frontend vs Backend XML parsing in Python Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Supervised and Unsupervised learning OOPs | Object Oriented Design Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Genetic Algorithms Getting started with Machine Learning Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Improve Article Save Article Like Article 8 Best JetBrains IDEs for Developers Last Updated : 27 Nov, 2021 JetBrains is a company that produces intelligent software tools for developers. It helps us to write clean codes. These products use machine learning models in the background to provide smart autocompletion and other suggestions while coding. They also display the methods and class names that could come in handy while coding. They greatly reduce the time taken for coding and give a great coding experience. In short, they allow the users to concentrate on problem-solving instead of worrying about syntax or other such minor issues. Here, in this article, we?re going to take a look at the 10 best JetBrains IDEs that will surely help the developers to increase their efficiency and productivity. So, let?s get started:   1. IntelliJ IDEA It is one of the most user-friendly IDE for developers and is best suitable for JVM languages. It helps us by providing intelligent recommendations and also autocompletes our code. It also helps us to develop full-stack applications and has integrated tools. Moreover, various plugins are available for developers to make their work efficient and convenient. It is most widely used for languages like Java, Kotlin, Groovy, and Scala. The main advantage of IntelliJ IDEA is that it is developed based on the user?s expectations and user needs. The disadvantage is that IntelliJ IDEA occupies more space and requires CPU usage. So in some cases, it may crash the system and ask to restart the computer. 2. PyCharm As the name suggests PyCharm is an IDE for Python developers. It also has smart code completions and on-the-fly error corrections. PyCharm can also be used for JavaScript, Typescript, CoffeeScript ,CSS ,etc. It has an inbuilt debugger and test runner for Python. PyCharm can be used to create a front end with Python. It also provides free plugins to use and an inbuilt terminal. PyCharm is provided with the feature of auto-complete where it completes the word or creates a function with a shortcut. It has the feature to access GIT in an easy way. It does the corrections in the spelling. The disadvantage is that it takes up the memory when multiple projects are opened. It also takes time for debugging and for initial starting. 3. WebStorm WebStorm is another enriching integrated development environment that makes web development more enjoyable. It is mainly used for JavaScript and other related technologies. It is available as an open-source tool. It can be used with Node.js, React, React Native, etc. It has the feature of checking the spelling. Since the WebStorm performs validation checks by default, the response is slow and also it needs more memory in our system. It becomes slow when working with a large number of files. 4. PhpStorm Like other similar products, PhpStorm is used to code using PHP. It supports almost all versions of PHP. it also has intelligent error corrections and the best auto completions. It is perfect for working with Laravel, Drupal, Zend, and WordPress. It is not only suitable for PHP development but also for front-end development. It provides Git versioning and deployment of any application from remote. It is also provided with some plugins for easy usage. It is cross-platform so it is very helpful in any organization to work on the same software irrespective of their operating system. The debugging process is quite slow and it also requires huge memory. 5. ReSharper ReSharper is an IDE specifically used for .NET developers. It supports C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, XAML, JavaScript, TypeScript, CSS, HTML, etc. It has a powerful unit test runner and other code templates suitable for .NET production. All keyboard shortcuts in ReSharper are taken from the Visual Studio keyboard. It has consistent formatting so it is easy to configure and use. It allows refactoring and unit testing. The disadvantage is that sometimes it gives inappropriate suggestions to the users. 6. Rider It is also an IDE for .NET Core, .NET, ASP.NET, etc. It gives great development experience of .NET languages. The UI used is similar to that of IntelliJ platforms. It is well known for its speed. The Rider developers also promised zero latency in this. It also works on Windows, macOS, and Linux. It provides various refactoring suggestions and indications for the C# language. It also provides good navigation and searching facilities which allows us to easily understand unfamiliar code. The disadvantage with Rider is that it takes a lot of time to start. Its performance on low-end machines is also not that good. 7. CLion CLion is an IDE for C and C++ developers. While coding in C++, the user need not worry about the syntax instead we can concentrate on the problem-solving part while the IDE takes care of the syntax. It contains all the templated libraries required for C and C++. The main advantages include cross-platform support, smart code completion, etc. It is very much beneficial for software development. The few disadvantages include taking a lot of time, not having an inbuilt compiler, and the tricky installation. 8. RubyMine As the name suggests RubyMine is exclusively used for Ruby/Rails projects. It has a user-friendly interface and inbuilt debugger. It is available on multiple platforms like macOS, Windows, etc. It helps us to be productive in every aspect of Ruby production. RubyMine comes with frequent updates and has inbuilt support for common gems. RubyMine supports editor configuration and debugger console. The disadvantage is that it stalls from time to time and confusions arise for refactoring and autocompletion. Bonus: Datalore ? It is more of coding assistance to JupyterNotebook in Python. It helps us to set up the development environment in seconds. So, as a result, we can work with data in a preset environment. Here we can also invite our team members to collaborate with us on the project. It is an alternative approach for Jupyter Notebook and Google Colab. It allows all the functionalities and supports all necessary libraries required for machine learning and data analytics. It has a Datalore kernel that supports and lets us do the live execution of our code. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Recommended Articles Page : 10 Best IDEs for C or C++ Developers in 2021 20, Feb 21 Python IDEs For Data Science 04, Apr 19 Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once 13, Aug 20 Top 10 IDEs For Programmers 06, Nov 21 10 Best CSS Frameworks For Frontend Developers in 2020 30, Apr 20 7 Best Learning Methods for Self Taught Developers 21, Jun 20 7 Best Testing Frameworks for Java Developers 16, Nov 20 10 Best Chrome Extension To Boost the Productivity For Developers 25, Mar 21 7 Best Books for Database Administrators and Developers 17, Nov 21 7 Best Python IDE For Developers in 2021 02, Feb 21 14 Important Coding Rules to Learn from Great Developers 09, Nov 20 Top 7 Code Sharing Website For Developers 25, Aug 20 7 Cool Python Project Ideas for Intermediate Developers 02, Jun 20 7 Most Recommended Programming Habits for Software Developers 31, May 19 Career Paths For Software Developers and Programmers in 2019 19, Jul 19 Design Patterns : A Must Skill to have for Software Developers in 2019 16, Aug 19 Why Golang is so Popular Among Developers? 11, Sep 20 10 Useful Chrome Extension For Web Developers And Designers 08, Nov 19 Imposter Syndrome In Software Developers: Am I A Fake Developer? 02, Dec 19 Top 10 Podcasts For Web Developers in 2020 16, Jul 20 Challenges of Software Developers 15, Jun 20 8 Useful Testing Tools, Libraries and Frameworks For React Developers 06, Jul 20 Top 5 Free Open-Source JavaScript Frameworks For Web Developers in 2020 29, Aug 20 Why Web Developers Should Learn SEO? 03, Sep 20 Article Contributed By : suryadbdeveloper @suryadbdeveloper Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in GBlog 7 Most In-Demand and High Paying Programming Jobs Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Top 10 Libraries Every Java Developer Should Know 7 Basic Statistics Concepts For Data Science Advantages and Disadvantages of Internet More related articles in GBlog ML | Underfitting and Overfitting Virtualization In Cloud Computing and Types Get Hired With GeeksforGeeks and Win Exciting Rewards! GeeksforGeeks School Top Programming Languages for Android App Development × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !