Algebra - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article Algebra Last Updated : 04 Jun, 2021 Algebra is a branch of mathematics that deals with number theory, geometry, and analysis. It is one of the oldest branches in the history of mathematics. Algebra is defined as the analysis of mathematical symbols and laws, as well as the manipulation of these mathematical symbols, according to some definitions. Algebra covers a wide range of topics, from solving basic problems to studying abstractions. Algebra equations are included in several chapters of mathematics that students will study in school. In addition, algebra contains a number of formulas and identities. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. The definition of algebra is focused on variables, which are undefined values. Equations are a crucial concept in algebra. To execute arithmetic operations, it follows a set of laws. The laws are used to interpret data sets that have two or more variables. It is used to analyze a variety of topics around us. Basic algebra, abstract algebra, linear algebra, advanced algebra, and commutative algebra are some of the sub-branches of algebra are discussed below: Table of Contents Polynomials Linear Equations Set theory Vectors Relations and Functions Matrices and Determinants Permutation and Combination Mathematical Induction Linear Algebra Linear algebra is a type of algebra that can be used in both applied and pure mathematics. It is concerned with linear mappings between vector spaces. It also entails the investigation of planes and tracks. It involves the investigation of linear sets of equations with transformation properties. It is concerned with linear equations and their representation in vector spaces and by matrices for linear functions. The following are some of the most important parts discussed in linear algebra: Polynomials  Polynomials are made by variables and coefficients, which are algebraic expressions. Indeterminate is another name for variables. For polynomial expressions, we may perform arithmetic operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and positive integer exponents, but not division by variable. Following are the topics that discuss polynomials deeply: Zeroes of a polynomial Remainder Theorem Multiplying Polynomials Algebraic Identities of Polynomials Geometrical meaning of the Zeroes of polynomial Relationship between Zeroes and coefficients of a polynomial Division Algorithm for polynomials Linear Equations  Linear equations are first-order equations. In the coordinate system, these equations are defined for lines. A linear equation is an equation for a straight line. The straight-line equation is written as y = mx + b, where m denotes the line?s slope and b denotes the y-intercept. The first-order equations are known as linear equations. In the coordinate system, these equations are defined for lines. Since the highest exponent of variables is 1, linear equations are also known as first-degree equations. Following are the topics that discuss linear equations deeply: Standard Algebraic Identities Algebraic expressions Like and Unlike Algebraic Terms Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions Standard Algebraic Identities Factorization Introduction to factorization Division of Algebraic Expressions Linear Equations in One Variable Solve Linear Equations with Variable on both Sides Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side Reducing Equations to Simpler Form Linear Equations and their solutions Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables Graphical methods of Solving a Pair of Linear Equations Algebraic methods of Solving a Pair of Linear Equations Equation Reducible to a Pair of linear equations in two variables Quadratic Equations Solution of a Quadratic equation by different methods Roots of a Quadratic Equation Algebraic Operations on Complex Numbers Argand plane and polar representation Imaginary Numbers Compound Inequalities Algebraic Solutions of Linear Inequalities in One Variable and their Graphical Representation Graphical Solution of Linear Inequalities in Two variables Fundamental Principle of Counting Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions Common difference and Nth term Sum of First n Terms Binomial Theorem for positive integral indices Pascal?s Triangle Introduction to Sequences and Series General and Middle Terms ? Binomial Theorem Arithmetic Series Arithmetic Sequences Geometric Sequence and Series Special Series Abstract Algebra Abstract algebra is one of the branches of algebra that finds truths about algebraic structures regardless of the existence of certain operations. In certain instances, these operations have special properties. As a result, we can draw certain conclusions about the implications of those properties. As a result, abstract algebra is a subset of mathematics. Groups, sets, modules, rings, lattices, vector spaces, and other algebraic structures are studied in abstract algebra. Following are the list of the articles that discuss the same: Set Theory Set theory is a branch of mathematical logic that investigates sets, which are arrays of objects informally. While any object can be gathered into a group, set theory as a branch of mathematics is mostly concerned with those that are important to all mathematics. Sets are an ordered array of items in mathematics that can be expressed in set-builder or roster form. Sets are usually denoted by curly braces;{} for example, A = {1,2,3,4} is a collection. Let?s learn more about the sets in the following articles: Sets and their representations Different kinds of Sets Subsets, Power Sets, and Universal Sets Venn Diagrams Operations on Sets Union and Intersection of sets Cartesian Product of Sets Vectors One of the most important aspects of algebra is vector algebra. It is a course that focuses on the algebra of vector quantities. There are two kinds of measurable quantities: scalars and vectors, as we all know. The magnitude of a scalar quantity is the only thing that matters, while the magnitude and direction of a vector quantity are also essential. A vector is a two-dimensional object of both magnitude and direction. It is normally represented by an arrow with a length (?) that indicates the magnitude and direction. A vector is a two-dimensional object of both magnitude and direction. It is normally represented by an arrow with a length that indicates the magnitude and direction. The arrowhead on the vector arrow has an arrowhead, and the tail on the other end is the tail. It is denoted by the letter V. The vector?s magnitude is denoted by the letter |V|. Let?s discuss more the vector and its algebra in the following articles: Dot and Cross Product of two vectors Section Formula Advanced Algebra There are advanced styles of algebra taught in schools such as abstract algebra, linear algebra, and standard algebra, in addition to basic algebra. This involves learning how to use a matrix to solve a large number of linear equations at the same time. The analysis of objects contained in equations, moving beyond numbers to the more abstract of classes of numbers, is known as abstract algebra. Let?s discuss more of it in the following topics: Relations and Functions The most significant subjects in mathematics are ?Relations and Functions.? Relations and functions are two distinct terms that have different mathematical interpretations. One might be puzzled by the differences between them. Before we go even further, let?s look at a clear example of the differences between the two. An ordered pair is represented as (INPUT, OUTPUT): The relation shows the relationship between INPUT and OUTPUT. Whereas, a function is a relation that derives one OUTPUT for each given INPUT. Let?s discuss more of the topic in the following articles: Relations Functions Types of Functions Composite functions Invertible Functions Introduction to Domain and Range Algebraic Operations on Complex Numbers Argand plane and polar representation Matrices and Determinants In linear algebra, determinants and matrices are used to solve linear equations by applying Cramer?s law to a series of non-homogeneous linear equations. Only square matrices are used to measure determinants. While a matrix?s determinant is empty, it?s known as a singular determinant, and when it?s one, it?s known as unimodular. The determinant of the matrix must be nonsingular, that is, its value must be nonzero, for the set of equations to have a unique solution. Let us look at the definitions of determinants and matrices, as well as the various forms of matrices and their properties, using examples in the following articles: Matrices and its Types Mathematical Operations on Matrices Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication How to Multiply Matrices Transpose of a matrix Symmetric and Skew Symmetric Matrices Inverse of a Matrix by Elementary Operations Invertible Matrices Determinants Properties of Determinants Area of a Triangle using Determinants Minors and Cofactors Adjoint of a Matrix Application of Determinants and Matrices Permutations and Combinations Permutation and combination are methods for representing a collection of objects by choosing them from a list and dividing them into subsets. It specifies the different methods for organizing a set of data. Permutations are used to choose data or events from a group, while combinations are used to represent the order in which they are represented. Let?s discuss them deeply in the following articles: Permutation Combinations Mathematical Induction For each and every natural number n, mathematical induction is a technique for proving a proposition, hypothesis, or formula that is assumed to be valid. The ?Principle of Mathematical Induction is a generalization of this that we can use to prove any mathematical statement. Therefore, let?s learn more about it in the following articles: Principle of Mathematical Induction Conditional Statements & Implications Validating Statements My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Mensuration Next ReactJS UI Ant Design Select Component Recommended Articles Page : Vector Algebra 15, Jun 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.6 | Set 1 24, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.1 | Set 2 28, Dec 20 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.2 01, May 21 Algebra of Continuous Functions - Continuity and Differentiability | Class 12 Maths 16, Dec 20 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.1 | Set 1 28, Dec 20 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.1 28, Dec 20 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.5 04, Jan 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.3 07, Jan 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.4 01, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.7 04, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.4 15, Feb 21 Algebra of Real Functions 18, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma- Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.8 22, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.2 | Set 1 22, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.2 | Set 2 22, Feb 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.5 15, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.9 23, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.6 | Set 2 24, Mar 21 Section Formula - Vector Algebra 28, Apr 21 Algebra of Derivative of Functions 31, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.3 | Set 1 24, Jun 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.3 | Set 2 25, Jun 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.3 | Set 3 28, Jun 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !