AngularJS Tutorials - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Table of Contents HTML Tutorials CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Web Development Table of Contents HTML Tutorials CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Web Development AngularJS Tutorials Last Updated : 01 Oct, 2021 AngularJs was originally developed in 2008-2009 by Misko Hevery and Adam Abrons and is now maintained by Google. AngularJS is a Javascript open-source front-end framework that is mainly used to develop single-page web applications(SPAs). It is a continuously growing and expanding framework which provides better ways for developing web applications. It changes the static HTML to dynamic HTML. Its features like dynamic binding and dependency injection eliminate the need for code that we have to write otherwise. AngularJS is rapidly growing and because of this reason, we have different versions of AngularJs with the latest stable being 1.7.7. It is also important to note that Angular is different from AngularJs. It is an open-source project which can be freely used and changed by anyone. It extends HTML attributes with Directives, and data is bound with HTML. Key Points: AngularJS is a JavaScript framework that is mainly used for Frontend Development. It is used for making Single Page Applications(SPA). It is open source and is completely free for everyone. It uses the Model, View, Control(MVC) pattern for developing projects.   Why use it? Easy to work with: All you need to know to work with AngularJs is basics of HTML,CSS and Javascript,not necessary to be an expert in these technologies. Time-saving: AngularJs allows us to work with components and hence we can use them again which saves time and unnecessary code. Ready to use template: AngularJs is mainly plain HTML, and it mainly makes use of the plain HTML template and passes it to the DOM and then the AngularJS compiler. It traverses the templates and then they are ready to use. Example: 
<html>
    
<head>
    <title>AngularJS ng-app Directive</title>

    <script src=
"https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.9/angular.min.js">
    </script>
</head>

<body style="text-align:center">
    
    <h2 style = "color:green">ng-app directive</h2>
    
    <div ng-app="" ng-init="name='GeeksforGeeks'">
        <p>{{ name }} is the portal for geeks.</p>
    </div>
</body>

</html>
 Output: Learn more about AngularJS: Introduction to AngularJS Introduction to Angular 7 Introduction to Angular 8 Complete Reference: AngularJS Directives Complete Reference AngularJS Function Complete Reference AngularJS Filters Complete Reference AngularJS Questions Complete Reference Interview Questions: AngularJS Interview Questions and Answers ?Recent Articles? on AngularJS If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to review-team@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most Popular Articles Black Friday Sale - Grab the Best Deals on GeeksforGeeks Courses Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies C program to create hard link and soft link Time Complexity and Space Complexity Program to implement Singly Linked List in C++ using class Most Visited Articles Difference between Class and Object Software and its Types Maximize the count of adjacent element pairs with even sum by rearranging the Array C++ Program to check if a given String is Palindrome or not Fix "Unable to locate adb within SDK" in Android Studio × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !