Calculus - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article Calculus Last Updated : 03 Jun, 2021 Calculus is a subset of mathematics concerned with the study of continuous transition. Calculus is also known as infinitesimal calculus or ?infinite calculus.? The analysis of continuous change of functions is known as classical calculus. Derivatives and integrals are the two most important ideas of calculus. The integral is the measure of the region under the curve, while the derivative is the measure of the rate of change of a function. The integral accumulates the discrete values of a function over a number of values, while the derivative describes the function at a given point. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Calculus, a branch of mathematics founded by Newton and Leibniz, study the pace of transition. Calculus Math is commonly used in mathematical simulations to find the best solutions. It aids us in understanding the changes between values that are linked by a purpose. Calculus Math is mostly concerned with certain critical topics such as separation, convergence, limits, functions, and so on. Calculus Mathematics is generally divided into two types: Differential Calculus and Integral Calculus. Both differential and integral calculus consider the effect of a small shift in the independent variable on the equation as it approaches zero. Both discrete and integral calculus serves as a basis for the higher branch of mathematics known as Analysis. Table of Contents Differential Calculus Integral Calculus Differential Calculus Differential Calculus deals with the issues of determining the rate of change of a parameter with respect to other variables. Derivatives are used to find the maxima and minima values of a function in order to find the best solution. The analysis of the boundary of a quotient leads to differential calculus. It is concerned with variables such as x and y, functions f(x), and the resulting variations in x and y. Differentials are represented by the symbols dy and dx. Differentiation refers to the method of determining derivatives. A function?s derivative is defined by dy/dx or f? (x). It denotes that the equation is the derivative of y with respect to x. Let us go through some main topics discussed in simple differential calculus in the following articles: Introduction to Limits Limits of Trigonometric Functions Squeeze Theorem Introduction to Derivatives Product Rule ? Derivatives Derivatives of Polynomial Functions Power Rule in Derivatives Continuity and Discontinuity Differentiability of a Function Derivatives of Implicit Functions Derivatives of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Exponential and Logarithmic Functions Logarithmic Differentiation Proofs for the derivatives of e? and ln(x) ? Advanced differentiation Derivative of functions in parametric forms Second-Order Derivatives in Continuity and Differentiability Mean value theorem Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus Algebra of Continuous Functions Rate of change of quantities Increasing and Decreasing Functions Separable Differential Equations Integral Calculus The analysis of integrals and their properties is known as integral calculus. It is primarily useful for the following two functions: To compute f from f? (i.e. from its derivative). If a function f is differentiable in the range under consideration, then f? is specified in that range. To determine the region under a curve. Differentiation is the inverse of integration. As separation can be defined as the division of a part into several small parts, integration can be defined as the selection of small parts to form a whole. It is commonly used to calculate area.  A definite integral has a specified boundary beyond which the equation must be computed. The lower and upper limits of a function?s independent variable are defined, and its integration is represented using definite integrals. An infinite integral lacks a fixed boundary, i.e. there is no upper and lower limit. As a result, the integration value is always followed by a constant value. Following are the articles that discuss the integral calculus deeply: Tangents and Normals Approximations & Maxima and Minima ? Application of Derivatives Integration by Substitution Integration by Partial Fractions Integration by Parts Integration using Trigonometric Identities Functions defined by Integrals Definite integrals Evaluation of Definite Integrals Properties of Definite Integrals Areas under Simple Curves Area Between Two curves Basic Concepts of differential equations General and Particular Solutions of a Differential Equation Formation of a Differential Equation whose General Solution is given Homogeneous Differential Equations Linear Differential Equations Exact Equations and Integrating Factors Implicit Differentiation Implicit differentiation ? Advanced Examples Disguised Derivatives ? Advanced differentiation Differentiation of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Logarithmic Differentiation My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Applying Transitions to Slides in MS PowerPoint Next jQWidgets jqxBarGauge colorScheme Property Recommended Articles Page : Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus - Class 12 CBSE 10, Nov 20 Fundamental Theorem of Calculus 25, Jun 21 Finding Derivative with Fundamental Theorem of Calculus 22, Jun 21 Brownian Motion and Diffusion 22, Nov 21 Liquification of Gases 22, Nov 21 Simplify t -2/3/t 3/4 21, Nov 21 If the length of a rectangle is increased by 60%, by what percentage would be the width have to be decreased to maintain the same area? 21, Nov 21 What is a Web Address? 21, Nov 21 How to simplify the 4th root of 4? 21, Nov 21 What percentage of 90 is 120? 20, Nov 21 Simplify 7x - 4x - x 12 20, Nov 21 Simplify 9t 4 + 7t - 45t 3 + 10t 19, Nov 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !