Careers - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Filters Job Type ?Internship ?Part Time ?Full Time Job Department Software Marketing Sales Operations Accounting HR Designer Teaching Content Writer Careers@ GeeksforGeeks Job Type ?Internship ?Part Time ?Full Time Job Department Software Marketing Sales Operations Accounting HR Designer Teaching Content Writer Are you ready to apply your knowledge to exciting new challenges? From learning to leadership, this is your chance to take your career to a next level. Apply for below listed vacancies and our team will get in touch with you. Full Time Associate Mentor/ Mentor Job Description GeeksforGeeks stands apart from other platforms because only experienced professionals are permitted to lead our cohorts. We are seeking individuals who possess software development/teaching experience. The Mentor will be responsible to take online classes/live classes and will be responsible for the creation of course material. Required Educational Background : B.tech/M.tech tier-1 or 2 colleges will be preferred. B.tech/M.tech from other institutes with good competitive programming handles can also apply Required Experience : 1-5 yrs (experience with Tech Institutes/ Training Institutes/ IT Services Organizations) Freshers can apply ? Yes, if you are good at competitive programming and have a good rating on coding platforms. For example, A rating of 5 stars or more on Codechef. You should apply if : You are comfortable and confident guiding students through structured lesson plans while sometimes needing to diverge from the lecture track to give real-world examples based on your own experiences. You are honest and open with your students and display a genuine desire to help them learn and grow. You are able to keep your highest-performing students engaged with additional challenges. You are capable of translating your own career experiences into advice for aspiring developers. What we expect from our Course Mentors: Candidates with Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms along with at least one technology stack Candidates with experience on live projects and excellent programming skills will be preferred. You should possess excellent communication skills and should be able to communicate effectively with diversified student base (Including International Geographic locations). You are willing to research and explore best practices in teaching and are able to contribute to the ongoing evolution of a comprehensive curriculum, with supporting exercises to produce valuable junior developers. Salary offered : Negotiable Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Software Developer Job Description We are looking for a coding fanatic who is interested in working upon and learning new technologies. A person who will closely work with our Software team to accomplish the operational excellence of the GeeksforGeeks website. If you think you have the niche for new technologies to work on, you will be our choice to go. Role and Responsibilities : You will be responsible for adding and improving functionalities to the various domains of GeeksforGeeks. You will be responsible for developing REST APIs for backend services like Authentication, Authorization, etc. You should apply if : Good knowledge and working experience in React JS and Javascript. Excellent Knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms/ Programming Concepts. Experience in basic Web development (HTML5/ CSS3/ JavaScript/ SQL). Well versed with RDBMS with hands on experience in MySQL. Knowledge of Amazon AWS and cloud services. Experience in Backend development (Django/ Core PHP). Familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect Web applications to back-end service. Strong knowledge of Object Oriented programming, design principles, patterns, and best practices. Creativity and critical thinking to optimally implement new features. Familiarity with code versioning tools like Git. Learn quickly and adapt to a fast-changing environment. Ability and eagerness to learn and explore new topics independently. Qualification : B Tech./ M Tech.(CS/IT) OR MCA Salary offered : Negotiable Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Member of Technical Staff (DSA) Job Description We are looking for a Computer Science enthusiast who is willing to contribute to the technical content development of our website. The position entails working with our review team in the assessment and development of the content present on our website. If you think you have command over DSA on your fingertips along with good analytical skills, then your profile would be the catch for us. Role and Responsibilities : You will coordinate and work with the Technical Content Team for creating and reviewing quality content for our website and stimulate problems for various domains. Review technical content, articles, codes, and other contents to be published on our website. Create problems and test the questions across various difficulty levels for Hiring Contests,conducted by GeeksforGeeks. Desired Skills : Excellent Knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms Knowledge of other computer science subjects (Would be a plus) Qualification : B Tech./ M Tech.(CS/IT) OR MCA Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Member of Technical Staff (JAVA) Job Description We are looking for a Computer Science enthusiast who is willing to contribute to the technical content development of our website. The position entails working with our review team in the assessment and development of the content present on our website. If you think you have command over Java at your fingertips along with good analytical skills, then your profile would be the catch for us. Role and Responsibilities : You will coordinate and work with the Technical Content Team for creating and reviewing quality content for our website and stimulate problems for various domains. Review technical content, articles, codes, and other contents to be published on our website. Create problems and test the questions across various difficulty levels for Hiring Contests, conducted by GeeksforGeeks. Desired Skills : Excellent Knowledge of Java Knowledge of other computer science subjects, Java Advanced would be a plus Qualification : B Tech./ M Tech.(CS/IT) OR MCA Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Course Counsellor (Sales) Job Description GeeksforGeeks is currently looking for ambitious and highly-skilled sales and marketing personnel. You will have tremendous opportunities to develop and form innovative campaigns that will help to grow our organization?s marketing strategies. Candidates for this role should be creative, charismatic, knowledgeable, and exceptionally well-versed in Social Media Marketing. If you think you can help channelize GeeksforGeek?s various Marketing strategies, then you are what we are looking for. Role and Responsibilities : Work collaboratively with the sales team to assess current projections. Will be responsible for all the communication with clients and getting them on board for association. Resolving queries of candidates for our courses and converting them to sales. Help to detail, design, and implement marketing plans for each product and services being offered. Handling social media channels of GeeksforGeeks. Desired Skills : Excellent Verbal and Written English and excellent in Communication Skills. Experience in selling Computer Science or Coding Courses Proficient in Social Media Marketing, Email Marketing Qualification : Any Graduate/Post-Graduate (B.Tech in CS Preferred) Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Internship Community Intern Job Description We are looking for a Community Intern who is interested in working upon and learning new technologies. A person who will closely work with our GeeksforGeeks team and Planning campaigns to keep our audience engaged. Role and Responsibilities : Contact Colleges and set up a contest first and then initiate the conversation to onboard that campus with year long collaboration. Attend Sponsorships Queries. You will be conducting different activities with the Campus. Desired Skills : Planning campaigns to keep our audience engaged. Out of the box thinking to come up with new ideas which will help college students and GeeksforGeeks. Getting more and more engagement and new audience for GeeksforGeeks. Know How exactly a college management works. Good Negotiation skill. Qualification : (Fresher) B Tech./ M Tech.(CS/IT) OR MCA Stipend: Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Digital Marketing Specialist Job Description GeeksforGeeks is currently looking for ambitious and highly-skilled marketing ads specialist personnel. You will have tremendous opportunities to develop and form innovative campaigns that will help to grow our organization?s marketing strategies. Candidates for this role should be creative, charismatic, knowledgeable, and exceptionally well-versed in Digital Marketing. You will be responsible for combining marketing and social media management to enhance the company?s social media presence, interaction with target audiences, promoting the brand?s engaging content, and expanding the opportunities for increasing the revenue. Role and Responsibilities : Work collaboratively with the marketing & sales team to assess current projections. You will be developing strong and innovative digital marketing strategies using PPC, SEO, SEM, Facebook ads, Google ads and other techniques to attract traffic to the company?s website and increasing awareness of company?s products and services. Enhance brand awareness in the digital space. Handling social media channels of GeeksforGeeks. Drive website traffic and acquire leads. Well versed in Google Analytics. Will be responsible for Marketing related data analysis and reports presentation. Achieve audience engagement, website traffic, and revenue by exploiting all digital marketing aspects of social media marketing roadmap. Desired Skills : Excellent Verbal and Written English and excellent in Communication Skills. Proficient in Social Media Marketing, Email Marketing. Proficient in SEO, SEM, Facebook Ads, Google Analytics, Google Ads, Instagram Marketing. Qualification : Technical Graduate/Post-Graduate Preferred (B.Tech/ BCA / MBA) Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Corporate Collaboration Executive Job Description The Corporate Collaboration Executive will be responsible for building relations with IT Corporates. They will be the vital link between Corporate companies and Geeksforgeeks. This person will be responsible for developing and executing influencer marketing strategies and creative campaigns. Role and Responsibilities : Responsible for building corporate relations with renowned IT Companies. Responsible for designing end-to-end full-scale influencer campaigns that support marketing initiatives and brand collaborations. Will be responsible for targeting potential influencers and YouTubers for brand collaborations and tie-ups. Lead the influencer campaign, collaboration plan, and public relation with brand building. Research relevant industry experts, competitors, target audience, and users. Develop content ideas and write and curate content for influencers. Brainstorm new, creative approaches to influencer campaigns. Keep abreast of emerging trends, technologies and influencer. Liaising with the marketing team to create and coordinate marketing strategies that work across different channels. Influencer outreach on various platforms. Desired Skills : Degree in journalism, advertising, marketing, or English with a minimum of 1 year of experience in PR/communications or a corporate collaboration Role will be preferred. Well organized with great time management skills. Proven track record in outreach campaign strategies Knowledge of various influencer platforms like Youtube, LinkedIn, Instagram, Quora, etc. Having a good following is a bonus. Good project management skills, a go-getter. Good interpersonal and relationship-building skills Networking aptitude. Qualification : Any Graduate/Post-Graduate (B.Tech/ MBA) Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Test Automation Engineer Job Description GeeksforGeeks is looking for a highly skilled Test Automation Engineer to design automation tests. A person who can design automation scripts and find solutions for automation problems. Proficiency in programming languages and excellent time management skills are top-notch for a Test Automation Engineer. You should also be committed to developing skills in order to provide up-to-date solutions. Role and Responsibilities : Write, design, and execute automated tests by creating scripts that run testing functions automatically. Write documentation for automated processes including test plans, test procedures, and test cases. Log and document bugs in the tracking system. Set up Continuous Integration. Researching issues in software through testing. Keeping updated with the latest industry developments. Desired Skills : Proficiency in any programming language such as Python or Java. Knowledge of quality management tools (Test Manager, Test Link, SpiraTest, TestRail). Organize & manage all phases of the software testing process including planning, running tests Tracking defects, generating and storing test reports, and interlinking them with the release requirements. Knowledge of any test automation frameworks like Selenium, TestNG, or JUnit. Good problem-solving skills, highly accurate and detail- oriented. Qualification : B.tech (CS/IT) / M.tech (CS/IT) or Software development or any other related field. Required Experience : At least 1-year experience as a Test Automation Engineer. Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Sec. 136 Apply Now Full Time Android Developer Job Description We are looking for an Android Developer who possesses a passion for pushing Mobile Technologies to the limits. You will work with our android team to design and build the next generation of our mobile applications. Your primary focus will be the development of Android applications and their integration with backend services. Role and Responsibilities : Design and build advanced applications for Android platform. Continuously discover, evaluate and implement new technologies to maximize development efficiency. Help maintain code quality and be able to write reusable code. Work on bug fixing and improving application performance. Ensure the best possible performance, quality responsiveness of application. Desired Skills : Strong knowledge of Android SDK, different versions of Android and how to deal with different screen sizes. Strong knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms, Kotlin and Java and DBMS. Familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect Android applications to back-end services. Knowledge of the open source Android ecosystem and libraries available for common tasks. Learn quickly and adapt to a fast-changing environment. Solid understanding of full Android development life cycle. Qualification : B.Tech/M.Tech (CS/IT) Required Experience : 1-3 Years of Relevant experience Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Sec. 136 Apply Now Full Time iOS Developer Job Description At GeeksforGeeks we are looking for an iOS Developer, who possesses strong skills at iOS backend & Frontend Development using Objective-C/Swift and React Native. If you believe you are good at these skill sets, then this is the perfect role for you. Role and Responsibilities : Design and Build Mobile Application for the iOS platform from Scratch. Responsible for Backend and Frontend Development for iOS Application. Responsible for API Development and integration of App Development. Responsible for Mobile App Development along with mobile testing tools and techniques. Testing, bug fixing, and improving application performance. Collaborate with cross-functional teams, define, design and add new features. Responsible and capable of meeting tight deadlines. Desired Skills : Excellent Knowledge of Swift or Objective-C. Excellent Knowledge of DSA Concepts. Good Knowledge of React Native. Familiarity with push notifications, APIs and cloud messaging. Should be comfortable with Concurrent Programming. Analytical mindset and good problem-solving skills. Creativity & Critical thinking to optimally implement new features. Qualification : B.Tech/M.Tech (CS/IT) Required Experience : 1-3 Years Experience Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Sec. 136 Apply Now Full Time Motion Graphic Designer Job Description To process and enhance video assets based on standard procedures. The position requires the technical knowledge to identify improvement opportunities within the workflow and act upon reducing waste and improving quality of the product videos. We are looking for boundless creativity a good visual aesthetic, and deep passion for learning on a daily basis. Role and Responsibilities : Good graphic designing and sound design skills. Predominantly a 2d Animator. Knowledge of Compositing and Post Processing. Work closely with the content team to realize our design ideas. Define early concepts, flesh out the high-level workflow, and execute on a crisp and effective visual design. Create illustrations that meet quality standards under ambitious deadlines. Interested in fast paced short videos instead of bigger and longer projects. Experience with the following tools like Adobe Illustrator, Adobe After Effects, Photoshop, InDesign, Sketch, Figma, Invision would be a plus. Performs motion graphics for creating Product summary videos. Desired Skills : Ability to prioritize and multi-tasking. Have good grip on how to use colours, graphics, type, and effects to better convey the design. Predominantly a 2d Animator. Expert in Typography. Knowledge about copyright in Digital Media. Very organized and detail-oriented. Required Experience : 1.5-3 Years Experience Qualification : B.tech / Media & Mass comm/ BCA/ MCA Salary offered : 4-6 LPA Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Product Designer Job Description GeeksforGeeks is looking for a Product designer with strong creative skills. We are looking for boundless creativity a good visual aesthetic, and a deep passion for learning on a daily basis. Role and Responsibilities : Excellent eye for user-centered designs. Ability to detect and understand problems as well as having excellent problem-solving skills. Existing Behance or Dribbble portfolio (or a portfolio on your own website) is a plus. Support our developers with regard to UX design and usability, and continuously discuss technical implementation feasibility and limitations. Knowledge of Adobe XD. Help us define and implement our UX metrics strategy. Produce polished visual design specs that are clear and directed. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Desired Skills : An awesome attitude, the ability to pivot quickly, and do the hard work to help the team meet their goals of creating a great customer experience. Experience in Interaction Design for crafting delightful experience with micro-interactions. Who understands how to test to validate prototypes, then iterate based on feedback. Passion for usability ? helping to build brand identity ? including small site interactions. Required Experience : 0-3 Years Experience Qualification : B.tech / Media & Mass comm/ BCA/ MCA Salary offered : 3-5 LPA Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Full Time Graphic Designer Job Description GeeksforGeeks is looking for a graphics designer who will have strong creative skills and a portfolio of work that demonstrates their passion for content development & illustrative design. Role and Responsibilities : Responsible mainly for social media graphics, marketing collaterals, illustrations, and logo design Knowledge and understanding of typography, color theory, logo design, image selection layouts, grids, templates, image use and graphic design principles. Design creatives for digital marketing like social media posts & ad campaigns, blog posts images and infographics mostly around programming material. Hands-on Experience on Graphics Design. Graphic designing on Adobe Premier or equally legible editing Software would be an advantage. Manage multiple projects and deliver work on time. Desired Skills : Design software/tools knowledge is good to have but creativity and design sense is a must. Ability to prioritize and multi-tasking. Knowledge about copyright in Digital Media. Very organized and detail-oriented. A positive ? can-do? attitude. Required Experience : 0-3 Years Experience Qualification : B.tech / Media & Mass comm/ BCA/ MCA Salary offered : 3-4 LPA Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Apply Now Part Time Course Mentor Job Description GeeksforGeeks stands apart from other platforms because only experienced professionals are permitted to lead our cohorts. We are seeking individuals who possess software development/ teaching experience. The Course Mentors should have strong command on Data Structures and Algorithms. Desired Skills : Candidates with Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms. Candidates with experience on live projects and excellent programming skills will be preferred. You should posses excellent communication skills and should be able to communicate effectively with diversified student base (Including International Geographic locations). You are willing to research and explore best practices in teaching and are able to contribute to the ongoing evolution of a comprehensive curriculum, with supporting exercises to produce valuable junior developers. Basic Knowledge of Adobe After Effects and Adobe Photoshop. You should apply if : You are comfortable and confident guiding students through structured lesson plans while sometimes needing to diverge from the lecture track to give real world examples based on your own experiences. You are honest and open with your students and display a genuine desire to help them learn and grow. You are able to keep your highest performing students engaged with additional challenges. You are capable of translating your own career experiences into advice for aspiring developers. Required Experience : 1-5 yrs (experience with Tech Institutes/ Training Institutes/ IT Services Organizations) Salary offered : Best In Industry Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Sector- 136, Noida Apply Now Part Time Technical Content Writer Job Description Excellent writing skills in technical content is must for content writing. Click here to choose and write from a wide range of topics. Stream : Computer Science Desired Skills : C/C++/Java/Python/Data Structures and Algorithm. Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Apply Now Internship (work from office) Technical Content Engineer Job Description Excellent writing skills in technical content is must for content writing. You will also be responsible for Reviewing the technical content thoroughly. You should apply if : Candidates qualified for internship will be eligible for Certificates by GeeksforGeeks Students will also get Stipend of the internship Improves your knowledge as you need to learn extensively before writing an article Flexible work timings as this is work@home Internship Duration of internship can be one month to one year. Duration of Internship : 6 ? 12 months Stream : Computer Science Desired Skills : C/C++/Java/Python/Data Structures and Algorithm. Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Apply Now My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save No Jobs Found or Opening Right Now. × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !