CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Applications of Heron's Formula Angle Sum Property of a Quadrilateral What is the Unit of Temperature? Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Applications of Heron's Formula Angle Sum Property of a Quadrilateral What is the Unit of Temperature? Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes Last Updated : 11 Nov, 2021 CBSE Class 9 Physics notes, GeeksforGeeks has created a new approach to school learning. Physics has been among the crucial subjects of the Class 9 Science Syllabus. It helps students in improving their understanding of fascinating concepts. The understanding of how motion, force, work, sound, gravity, energy, and power interact with one another and impact our lives. GeeksforGeeks prepared in-depth subject theory to have a solid foundation of Class 9 Physics. The below-listed articles are designed in such a way that you study everything according to your NCERT textbook, or reference books. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Motion The first chapter in the Physics curriculum of Class 9 is Motion. Motion means movement. Motion is defined as the change in position of an object with respect to its surrounding in a given interval of time. This chapter forms the basic idea of kinematics for students to learn in further classes. Therefore, CBSE Class 9 Physics notes elaborate on distance and displacement, uniform and non-uniform motion, speed, velocity, and accelerated and decelerated motion. It also explains the equation of motion with a graphical representation of motion and uniform circular motion as listed below: Measuring the Rate of Motion Velocity ? Time Graphs Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Uniform Circular Motion Chapter 2: Force and Laws of Motion Force and Laws of Motion is the second chapter in the Class 9 Physics Syllabus. These notes explain the concept of force, its effects, balanced and unbalanced force, laws of motion, and Newton?s laws of motion. It further offers a detailed explanation of mass and inertia, momentum and mass, its unit along with numerical problems for practice. The notes also explain the second law of motion and the third law of motion. Below are the listed articles on Force and Laws of Motion: Force ? Definition, Effects, Types, Sample Problems Balanced and Unbalanced Forces Newton?s First Law of Motion Mass and Inertia Newton?s Second Law of Motion Newton?s Third Law of Motion Conservation of Momentum Chapter 3: Gravitation The third chapter of the Physics in Science syllabus of Class 9 is Gravitation. Gravitation is the universal force of attraction acting between all matter. GeeksforGeeks crucial notes explain Newton?s universal law of gravitation, mass, weight, and the difference between mass and weight. The notes further provide solved numerical problems, which are discussed in the articles listed below: Newton?s Universal Law of Gravitation Kepler?s Law of Planetary Motion Acceleration due to Gravity Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Mass and Weight Free Fall ? Definition, Examples, Formula, and Problems on it Buoyant Force and Causes of Buoyant force Relative Density Chapter 4: Work and Energy The Work and Energy is the fourth chapter in the Physics syllabus and so an important chapter to understand to solve mechanics in further classes. The notes talk about work, a condition when the work should be and when not, its unit, along with positive, negative, and zero work. The notes also elaborate on energy, its types, the law of conservation energy, power, a commercial unit of power and provide solved numericals, discussed in the articles mentioned below: Work ? Definition, Formula, Types of Work, Sample Problems What is Energy? Kinetic Energy Potential Energy Power Commercial Unit of Energy Chapter 5: Sound The last chapter in the Class 9 Physics Syllabus is Sound. Sound is heard every day from various sources like humans, birds, bells, machines, TV, radios, etc. The notes elaborate production and propagation of sound, sound waves as longitudinal waves, their characteristics, wavelength, frequency, time period, amplitude, and velocity. Various other concepts of the speed of sound in multiple mediums, sonic boom, echo, a reflection of sound, range of hearing, application of ultrasound, sonar, and structure of the human ear are also explained in the article listed below: Production and Propagation of Sound Sound Needs a Medium for Propagation What are the Characteristics of Sound Waves? Speed of Sound Reflection of Sound Explain the Working and Application of SONAR Human Ear My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes Next CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 Braille System - Light | Class 8 Physics 01, Mar 21 CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 How is Physics related to Other Sciences? 25, Jun 21 Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus - Class 12 CBSE 10, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 31 Derivatives - Exercise 31.1 17, Dec 20 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.2 | Set 1 21, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Continuity - Exercise 9.1 | Set 2 18, May 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 21 Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere - Exercise 21.1 15, Jan 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Mathematical Induction - Exercise 12.1 08, Jan 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 8 Quadratic Equations - Exercise 8.3 | Set 1 08, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Binomial Distribution - Exercise 33.1 | Set 1 14, Jul 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Functions - Exercise 3.3 20, Apr 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Graphical Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 23.1 | Set 1 17, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 9 School Learning School Physics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 9 Number System and Arithmetic Collection and Presentation of Data Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Separation of Mixtures Script in Scratch Programming Most visited in School Learning Cloud Deployment Models How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types What are the 4 types of sequences? Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !