CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Number System in Maths CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Table of Contents CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Number System in Maths CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Last Updated : 27 May, 2021 CBSE Class 9 Mathematics Concepts, makes students to understand all the concepts of class 9 maths chapter-wise as it covers all the topics and subtopics provided in the syllabus of class 9 maths. GeeksforGeeks provided the following chapter-wise notes that contain numbers of theorems with their proper explanations, formulae with their applications, and graphs that need to accelerate students? knack of practicing problems and boost their interest to pursue maths in higher classes. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Number Systems The numeral or number system is the combination of natural, integers, rational, irrational, and real numbers. This lesson covers the entire concepts of the numeral system and its types, representation on the number line, laws of rational exponents, and integral powers. Number System Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Operations on Real numbers Laws of exponents for real numbers nth roots of a number Chapter 2: Polynomials Polynomial is an expression that comprises variables and coefficients which involves the operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, and non-negative integer exponentiation of variables. Polynomials in One Variable Zeroes of a polynomial Remainder Theorem Multiplying Polynomials Algebraic Identities of Polynomials Standard Algebraic Identities Chapter 3: Coordinate Geometry The coordinate geometry is a part of geometry where the position of the points on the plane is described with the help of an ordered pair of numbers called coordinates. Cartesian Coordinate System Cartesian Plane Chapter 4: Linear Equations in Two Variables  Any equation which can be defined in the form ax + by + c = 0, where a, b and c are real numbers, and a and b are not both zero, is called a linear equation in two variables. Linear Equations and their solutions Graph of a linear equation in two variables Equations of Lines Parallel to the x-axis and y-axis Chapter 5: Introduction to Euclid?s Geometry Euclidean geometry is the branch of geometry that deals with the study of geometrical shapes and figures based on different axioms and theorems. This study basically provides a brief explanation for flat surfaces. Euclid?s Definitions, Axioms, and Postulates Equivalent version of Euclid?s Fifth postulate  Chapter 6: Lines and Angles In geometry, Lines and Angles are defined as figures that are made up of infinite points extending indefinitely in both directions. Lines are straight and have length and breadth, while an angle is a figure from which two rays emerge from a common point. Basic terms and definitions Pairs of Angles  Lines parallel to the same line and Angle Sum Property Chapter 7: Triangles Geometrically, a triangle is defined as a three-sided polygon consist of three edges and three vertices. The most important and applied property of a triangle is its Angle sum property which means the sum of the internal angles of a triangle is equal to 180 degrees only. Congruence of Triangles Properties of triangles Angle Sum Property of a Triangle Inequalities in a triangle Theorem ? Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal Chapter 8: Quadrilateral A quadrilateral is a plane geometrical figure which has four sides and has four corners or vertices. Typically, quadrilaterals are rectangle, square, trapezoid, and kite or irregular and uncharacterized figures with four sides. Angle sum property of a quadrilateral Types of quadrilateral Properties of Parallelograms MidPoint Theorem Rhombus Kite ? Quadrilaterals Chapter 9: Areas of Parallelograms and Triangles The area of a plane figure is described as the amount of the planar surface covered by a closed geometric figure like rectangle, square, etc. The area of a parallelogram is equal to the product of its  Area of 2D Shapes Chapter 10: Circles  A circle is a geometrical shape which is defined as the locus of points that moves in a plane so that its distance from a fixed point is always constant. This fixed point is the Centre of the circle while the fixed distance from it is called the radius of the circle.  Circles and its Related Terms Circle Theorems Theorem ? There is one and only one circle passing through three given non-collinear points Theorem ? The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° Chapter 11: Constructions  Construction helps to understand the approach to construct different types of triangles for different given conditions using a ruler and compass of required measurements. Basics Construction Some construction of triangles Chapter 12: Heron?s Formula In this chapter, a formula called Heron?s formula is introduced which helps to determine the area of the triangle when three sides of its being given. The application of this formula also helps to find the area of other different polygons also. Heron?s Formula Applications of Heron?s Formula Chapter 13: Surface Areas and Volumes Surface area and volume are the measures calculated for a three-dimensional geometrical shape like a cube, cuboid, sphere etc. The surface area of any given object is the area occupied by the surface of the object while volume is the amount of space available in an object. Volumes of Cubes and Cuboids Chapter 14: Statistics  Statistics is the study of the representation, collection, interpretation, analysis, presentation, and organization of data. In other words, it is a mathematical way to collect, summarize data. The representation of data differently along with the frequency distribution.  Presentation of data Graphical representation of Data Bar graphs and Histograms Central Tendency Mean, Median, Mode, and Range Chapter 15: Probability The Probability in this class includes basic probability theory, which is also used in the probability distribution, to learn the possibility of outcomes for a random experiment and to find the probability of a single event to occur, when the total number of possible outcomes. Experimental Probability Empirical Probability Practice Problems on Probability My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Number System in Maths Next GeeksforGeeks School Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression ? Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths 25, Oct 20 Distance formula - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 9 Number System and Arithmetic Collection and Presentation of Data Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Separation of Mixtures Script in Scratch Programming Most visited in School Learning Cloud Deployment Models How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types What are the 4 types of sequences? Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !