CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics Last Updated : 11 Nov, 2021 Physics is an important subject to score good marks in Class 10 as well as to gain knowledge. So, GeeksforGeeks provides Chapterwise explained in detail Notes. Class 10 Physics Notes helps to learn how motion, energy, Light, electricity, and work affect our lives. Our Class 10 Physics Notes ensures that you study everything in accordance with your NCERT textbook, core books, or reference books. The following chapter-wise CBSE Class 10 Physics notes consist of 5 chapters including Light, The human eye and the colourful world, Electricity, Magnetic Effects of Electric Current, Sources of Energy which are further equipped with various concepts, everyday life examples, conceptual questions, and numericals on the same, in order to understand better and solve problems easily. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Light The very first chapter in the Physics syllabus of Class 10 is Light. The chapter Light is also studied in Class 8 also. The only difference between the topics discussed in Class 10 Notes is that, the vastness and depth of the study. Here we have covered the important topic of reflection and refraction and how to calculate the nature, position, image, and magnification generated by a spherical mirror. It also includes refraction of light via glass slab, the concept of refractive index, Spherical Lenses, Power of lens, and more. The following articles are listed below also includes Solved Sample Questions that help to understand the topic better: Reflection of Light Refraction of Light Concave and Convex Mirrors ? Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications Spherical Mirrors Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Derivation of Mirror formula Mirror Formula and Magnification Refractive Index Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Lens Formula and Magnification Power of a Lens Chapter 2: The human eye and the colourful world The second chapter of Physics in the Class 10 Science book is the human eye and the colourful world. The human eye is one of the most important and sensitive sense organs, that enable us to see the colourful world around us. This chapter helps us to understand how our eyes functions and different phenomenon related to it. Therefore, our Class 10 Physics Notes cover the Importance of the eye, Defects of vision and their correction, Atmospheric refraction, Light refraction through the prism, Scattering of light, Tyndall effect, and more. GeeksforGeeks Class 10 Physics Notes are equipped with a detailed explanation of the topics listed below along with the Sample Questions related to them for a better understanding of the concept: Human Eye  What is Dispersion of Light? Dispersion of Light by Prism Atmospheric Refraction Scattering of Light Tyndall Effect Chapter 3: Electricity Electricity is the third and the most crucial chapter of the Physics curriculum in Class 10 Science subject. Electricity is the flow of electrical power or charge. CBSE Class 10 Physics Notes cover all the related topics of electricity in this chapter. Students can understand the electric current, electric potential, Ohm?s Law, and circuit with the help of a diagram. It also includes Resistance, factors on which the resistance depends, the system of resistors along with the heating effect of a current, commercial unit of electrical energy, and many more. The articles on the topics covered in this chapter are listed below, these articles cover all the major topics as well as subtopics covered in a reference or NCERT book, along with Sample Questions on each topic: Electric Current Electric Potential and Potential Difference Ohm?s Law Factors affecting Resistance Combination of Resistors Heating Effect of Electric Current Commercial Unit of Electrical Energy Heating Effect of Electric Current Chapter 4: Magnetic Effects of Electric Current Magnetic Effects of Electric Current is also an important chapter in Class 10 Physics. This chapter helps to develop a basic understanding of Magnets and Magnetism. Magnetism is the property of attraction of small pieces of iron, So, Magnet is a material that has both attractive and repelling properties. Our Class 10 Physics Notes cover all the significant topics like magnetic field and field lines, the force on current-carrying conductors, etc. It also covers electric motors, electric generators, and domestic electric circuits in a detailed way with solved conceptual questions in the articles listed below: Magnetic Field Earth?s magnetic field Magnetic Field due to Current in Straight Wire Magnetic Field due to Current carrying Conductor Magnetic field due to a Solenoid Electromagnet Magnetic Force on a Current carrying Wire Electric Motor Electromagnetic Induction Chapter 5: Sources of Energy The fifth and the last chapter in the Syllabus of Class 10 Physics is Sources of Energy. Energy is defined as the capacity of a body to do work. Therefore, it is required to store in a body to do more of the work. So, GeeksforGeeks Class 10 Physics Notes notes cover all the topics like energy, fossil fuels, conventional sources of energy, and more. Students can learn alternatives or non-conventional sources of energy in the articles listed below: Fossil Fuels Biomass Non-Conventional Sources of Energy Hydroelectric Power Ocean Energy What is Nuclear Energy? My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes Next CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 Braille System - Light | Class 8 Physics 01, Mar 21 CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 How is Physics related to Other Sciences? 25, Jun 21 Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus - Class 12 CBSE 10, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 31 Derivatives - Exercise 31.1 17, Dec 20 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.2 | Set 1 21, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Continuity - Exercise 9.1 | Set 2 18, May 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 21 Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere - Exercise 21.1 15, Jan 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Mathematical Induction - Exercise 12.1 08, Jan 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 8 Quadratic Equations - Exercise 8.3 | Set 1 08, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Binomial Distribution - Exercise 33.1 | Set 1 14, Jul 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Functions - Exercise 3.3 20, Apr 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Graphical Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 23.1 | Set 1 17, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 School Learning School Physics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in School Learning Cloud Deployment Models How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types What are the 4 types of sequences? First Generation Of Computer × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !