CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Last Updated : 27 Aug, 2021 CBSE Class 10 Mathematics Concepts, based on the latest syllabus for Class 10 Boards helps to understand all the concepts of class 10 maths chapter-wise. Notes provided by GeeksforGeeks comprise of all the formulae, theorems, concepts, proofs descriptions, definitions, graphs, that a student needs to practice and score good marks in their board examinations. Chapter 1: Real Numbers The chapter Real numbers include both irrational and rational numbers with all natural numbers, whole numbers, integers, etc and discuss their characteristics. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Euclid?s Division Algorithm  Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic HCF and LCM Decimal Expansion of Rational Numbers Chapter 2: Polynomials Polynomials are algebraic expressions that consist of coefficients and variables or indeterminate. An arithmetic operation such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and also positive integer exponents for polynomial expressions but not division by variable can be performed on polynomials. Geometrical meaning of the Zeroes of polynomial Relationship between Zeroes and coefficients of a polynomial Division Algorithm for polynomials Chapter 3: Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables An equation of the form ax+by+c, where a, b and c are real numbers and a, b are not equal to zero, is termed as the linear equation in two variables. However, in a pair of linear equations in two variables, there exist two such equations whose solution is a point on the line denoting the equation. Graphical methods of Solving a Pair of Linear Equations Algebraic methods of Solving a Pair of Linear Equations Equation Reducible to a Pair of linear equations in two variables Chapter 4: Quadratic Equations The degree 2 polynomial equations in one variable are called the Quadratic equations. The general form of a quadratic equation is ax2 + bx + c where a, b, c, ? R and a ? 0, where ?a? is called the leading coefficient and ?c? is called the absolute term of the complete equation.  Quadratic Equations Solution of a Quadratic equation by different methods Roots of a Quadratic Equation Chapter 5: Arithmetic Progressions The arithmetic progression is explained as the sequence of numbers where the difference between any two subsequent numbers is a constant.  Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions Common difference and Nth term Sum of First n Terms Chapter 6: Triangles  Geometrically, a triangle is defined as a three-sided polygon consist of three edges and three vertices. The most important and applied property of a triangle is its Angle sum property which means the sum of the internal angles of a triangle is equal to 180 degrees only. Similar Triangles Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse Thales?s Theorem Criteria for Similarity of Triangles Chapter 7: Coordinate Geometry Coordinate Geometry is defined as the link between geometry and algebra using graphs along with the curves and lines. In this way, it provides geometric aspects in Algebra and leads to solve geometric problems.  Coordinate Geometry Distance formula Section formula Mid-point Formula Area of a Triangle Chapter 8: Introduction to Trigonometry Trigonometry can be defined as calculations including in triangles to study its lengths, heights and angles. Trigonometry and its functions have an enormous number of uses in our daily life. Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Trigonometric Ratios of Some Specific Angles Reciprocal of Trigonometric Ratios Trigonometric Identities Chapter 9: Some Applications of Trigonometry Trigonometry has a lot of practical applications in our real-life. This part of geometry discusses the line of sight, angle of deviation, angle of elevation, and angle of depression. Using trigonometry and trigonometric ratios the height of a building, or a mountain, from a viewpoint and the elevation angle can be determined easily. Heights and Distances Chapter 10: Circles A circle is a geometrical shape that is defined as the locus of points that move in a plane so that its distance from a fixed point is always constant. This fixed point is the Centre of the circle while the fixed distance from it is called the radius of the circle.  Tangent to a circle Tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact Number of Tangents from a point on a circle Lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal  Chapter 11: Constructions Construction helps to understand the approach to construct different types of triangles for different given conditions using a ruler and compass of required measurements. Division of Line Segment in Given Ratio Chapter 12: Areas Related to Circles Area related to circles are the amount of space covered by a circle, which is defined in different ways. Some areas related to a circle are, area of the circle itself, Area of the sector, area of the segment, area of the triangle or parallelogram, etc located in a circle. Perimeter of circular figures, Areas of sector and segment of a circle & Areas of combination of plane figures Chapter 13: Surface Areas and Volumes Surface area and volume are the measures calculated for a three-dimensional geometrical shape like a cube, cuboid, sphere, etc. The surface area of any given object is the area occupied by the surface of the object while volume is the amount of space available in an object. Surface Areas and Volumes Volumes of a combination of solids Conversion of solids  Frustum of a Cone Chapter 14: Statistics Statistics is the study of the representation, collection, interpretation, analysis, presentation, and organization of data. In other words, it is a mathematical way to collect, summarize data. The representation of data differently along with the frequency distribution.  Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Mean, Median, and Mode of a grouped data Cumulative Frequency Curve Chapter 15: Probability The Probability in this class includes basic probability theory, which is also used in the probability distribution, to learn the possibility of outcomes for a random experiment and to find the probability of a single event to occur, when the total number of possible outcomes. Probability Theory Dependent and Independent Events My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Next Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 13 Complex Numbers - Exercise 13.2 | Set 2 Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression ? Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths 25, Oct 20 Distance formula - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in School Learning Cloud Deployment Models How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types What are the 4 types of sequences? What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !