CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Cloud Deployment Models Algebra Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Statistics Calculus Focus and Directrix of a Parabola Probability in Maths Trigonometry NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Cartesian Product of Sets Geometry Python Tokens and Character Sets Expressions in Python Principle of Mathematical Induction CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes Newton's Law of Cooling Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Newton's Third Law of Motion General and Middle Terms - Binomial Theorem - Class 11 Maths Motion in a Vertical Circle Average and Instantaneous Rate of Change Sample Problems on Equation of Motion Mensuration Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Relations and Functions Newton's Second Law of Motion Measures of Central Tendency Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Cloud Deployment Models Algebra Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Statistics Calculus Focus and Directrix of a Parabola Probability in Maths Trigonometry NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Cartesian Product of Sets Geometry Python Tokens and Character Sets Expressions in Python Principle of Mathematical Induction CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes Newton's Law of Cooling Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Newton's Third Law of Motion General and Middle Terms - Binomial Theorem - Class 11 Maths Motion in a Vertical Circle Average and Instantaneous Rate of Change Sample Problems on Equation of Motion Mensuration Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Relations and Functions Newton's Second Law of Motion Measures of Central Tendency Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes Last Updated : 11 Nov, 2021 GeeksforGeeks seeking the importance of School Learning started to create Class-wise Subject Notes. Physics Class 11 Notes is one of them. Physics is a complex subject that requires a lot of conceptual, practical, and revision understanding. Therefore, we at GeeksforGeeks provide well-developed Class 11 Physics notes, that cover all the topics from scratch to hatch. Class 11 Physics notes contain 15 chapters covering topics like Measurement, Vectors, Kinematics, Dynamics, Rotational Motion, Laws of Motion, Gravitation, Elasticity, Hydrodynamics, Thermodynamics, Calorimetry, Oscillations, Waves and many more. Thus, we have covered them all chapterwise, with detailed explanations of concepts, examples, and solved problems on them.  Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Physical World The first chapter in Class 11 Physics is the Physical World. The physical world is referred to as the complexity in nature and solving its own complexities will give us new insights into this physical world. It is referred to as the analysis of nature conducted in order to understand how the world around us performs. We have covered some crucial topics like the relation of Physics with other sciences, Fundamental Forces of nature, and many more in the articles listed below: How is Physics related to Other Sciences? Fundamental Forces in Nature Chapter 2: Units and Measurement Units and Measurement is the second chapter in the Physics curriculum of Class 11, which is the most basic and crucial chapter because it works everywhere in Physics. Units and measurement which is given in the class 11 physics textbook offer basic knowledge about how the quantities are measured and the types of units that are used with them. Therefore, we have covered topics like System of units, error in measurements significant figure, dimensional analysis, etc are listed below: System of Units Length Measurement Measurement of Area, Volume and Density Rounding Numbers Dimensional Analysis Significant Figures Errors in Measurement Chapter 3: Motion in a Straight Line The third chapter is Motion in a straight line. This is the first chapter of kinematics in the Physics syllabus of Class 11. GeeksforGeeks Class 11 Physics Notes covers the essential terms related to kinematics like Motion in one dimension and important terms related to it, Rest and Motion, Position, distance, and placement, Difference between speed and velocity, etc along with solved conceptual and numerical problems on it. What is a Motion? Distance and Displacement Speed and Velocity What is Acceleration? Uniformly Accelerated Motion Problems on Equation of Motion Free Fall Problems Based on Free Fall Relative Motion Relative Motion in One Dimension Stopping Distance and Reaction Time Chapter 4: Motion in a Plane The fourth chapter in Class 11 Physics is Motion in a Plane. Motion in a plane is the motion in 2 dimensions, for instance, projectile motion, circular motion, and so on. GeeksforGeeks Class 11 Physics Notes on Motion in a Plane cover the basics of motion in two dimensions, Scalar and vector ? unit vector, parallel vectors, Addition, subtraction, and scalar multiplication of vectors, Average and instantaneous velocity, Position vector and displacement, Projectile motion and many more others that are listed below: Scalars and Vectors Vector Operations Scalar Product of Two vectors Dot and Cross Products of Vectors Position and Displacement Vectors Average Velocity Motion in Two Dimension Relative Motion in Two Dimension Projectile Motion Uniform Circular Motion Chapter 5: Laws of Motion Laws of motion is an important chapter of Class 11 Physics. In our crucial 11th Class Physics Notes, you will understand what is force and the laws of motion. The chapter covers the definition of force and basic forces, Newton?s law of motion, Linear momentum, Principle of conservation of momentum. Contact and Non-Contact Forces Newton?s First Law of Motion Impulse Newton?s Second Law of Motion Laws of Conservation of Momentum Newton?s Third Law of Motion What is Friction? Types of Friction Methods of Reducing Friction Factors Affecting Friction Motion Along a Rough Inclined Plane Problems on Friction Formula Dynamics of Circular Motion Chapter 6: Work, Energy and Power Chapter 6 in the Physics curriculum of Class 11 is Work energy and Power. This is one of the most important and basic that have many formulas and equations on Work, Power, and Energy. Work is said to be done when a force applied on the body displaces the body through a certain distance in the direction of the force. These topic-wise concepts in the Chapter Work, Energy and Power helps to understand the concept of Work and dimensions of the unit of work, different forms of energies like Potential Energy and Kinetic energy, and its relationship with momentum. Along with the most useful topics like Mass-energy relationships, Power, etc are discussed in a detailed manner in the articles listed below: Scalar Product of Vectors Work-Energy Theorem Kinetic Energy Work Done by a Variable Force What is Potential Energy? Potential Energy of a Spring Problems on Potential Energy Power Types of Collisions Collisions in One Dimension Collisions in Two Dimensions Motion in a Vertical Circle Chapter 7: Systems of Particles and Rotational Motion Physics class 11 has a Seventh Chapter named Systems of Particles and Rotational Motion based on the Syllabus. GeeksforGeeks provide detailed knowledge of how the system of particles moves in our daily lives. The main focus is on the Topics like Kinematics of a system of particles, Various types of motions like translational motion, rotational motion, and rotational plus translational motion Rotational dynamics. This comprises of Newtons? laws, the moment of inertia, and theorems related to these concepts, Angular momentum, impulse, etc are discussed in the following articles as mentioned below: Centre of Mass Centre of Mass of Different Objects Motion of Centre of Mass Linear Momentum of a System of Particles Product of Vectors Torque and Angular Momentum Couple Principle of Moments Moment of Inertia Kinematics of Rotational Motion Dynamics of Rotational Motion Angular Momentum in Case of Rotation About a Fixed Axis Rolling Motion Chapter 8: Gravitation Gravitation is the Eighth Chapter in the Class 11 Physics Syllabus. In GeeksforGeeks Physics Notes, this Chapter contains the explanation on the topics like the law of gravitation given by Newton and many examples and problems that will clarify this law to the students. Topics Like Newton?s law of gravitation, Variation in g based on the distance of the object above the earth?s surface, Satellite ? How a satellite is projected to form a circular orbit around a planet, Escape velocity, Period of revolution of a satellite is discussed in depth in the articles listed as: Kepler?s Laws of Planetary Motion Newton?s Law of Gravitation Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Variation in Value of Acceleration due to Gravity Gravitational Potential Energy Binding Energy and Satellites Weightlessness Chapter 9: Mechanical Properties of Solids The Chapter Ninth is Mechanical Properties of Solids in the Class 11 Physics. GeeksforGeeks crucial Physics notes for this chapter help students to understand how even rigid bodies can be bent and stretched by applying sufficient external force. As part of this chapter, learners may also learn about Deforming force, Elasticity, Stress, Perfect elastic body, Types of stress ? Longitudinal, Tangential or shearing, Normal, Hooke?s law, etc as listed below: Elastic Behavior of Materials Elasticity and Plasticity Stress and Strain Hooke?s Law Stress-Strain Curve Young?s Modulus Poisson?s Ratio Elastic Potential Energy Stress, Strain and Elastic Potential energy Chapter 10: Mechanical Properties of Fluids Mechanical Properties of Fluids is the Tenth Chapter in Class 11 Physics. GeeksforGeeks Class 11 Notes of Physics Chapter 10 explain Pascal?s and Archimedes? principles related to fluid dynamics. Here is a synopsis of what a learner may learn here in this chapter: Fluid mechanics ? fluid pressure, atmospheric pressure, Pascal?s law, Archimedes Principle, Fluid dynamics ? steady flow, line of flow, The velocity of Efflux, Bernoulli?s theorem, Viscosity, Stoke?s Law, etc.  Fluid Pressure Problems on Pascal?s Law Variation of Pressure With Depth Hydraulic Machines Streamline Flow Bernoulli?s Equation Applications and Limitations of Bernoulli?s Law Viscosity Stoke?s Law Reynolds Number Surface Tension Chapter 11: Thermal Properties of Matter In Class 11, the Eleventh Chapter in Physics curriculum is the Thermal Properties of Matter. GeeksforGeeks?s important Class 11 Physics Notes of the matter?s thermal properties may take readers through a detailed course on heat and thermodynamics. A learner may learn about the rules and theorems like thermal properties of matter, temperature, heat, absolute temperature scale, and measurement of temperature, Thermal expansion, Heat transfer ? Conduction, Convection, and Radiation, Newton?s law of cooling, etc are discussed in the articles listed below: Heat and Temperature Scales of Temperature Ideal Gas Equation and Absolute Temperature Thermal Expansion Heat Capacity Calorimetry Change of State of Matter Latent Heat Thermal Conduction Problems on Heat Conduction Convection Radiation Greenhouse Effect Newton?s Law of Cooling Chapter 12: Thermodynamics In GeeksforGeeks Class 11 Physics Notes of Chapter 12, students learned about the interrelation between heat and other forms of energy. It covers the key concepts like Thermal equilibrium, Heat, work, and internal energy, Important thermodynamic terms like static variables, equation of state, Quasi-static process, Isothermal process, the first law of thermodynamics, and its applications along with different Engines and Cycles as listed below: Introduction to Thermodynamics Zeroth Law of Thermodynamics Heat, Internal Energy and Work First Law of Thermodynamics Specific Heat Capacity Thermodynamic Processes Chapter 13: Kinetic Theory Chapter 13 in Class 11 Physics Notes is Kinetic theory. The crucial Notes provided by GeeksforGeeks on kinetic theory teach students about important topics like the definition of kinetic theory, Molecular nature of matter, Dalton?s atomic theory, Avogadro?s law, Gay Lussac?s law, Molecular structure of solids, liquids, and gases. The behaviour of gases and the perfect gas equation, Deduction of Boyle?s and Charle?s Laws, Mean free path are also discussed in the articles listed below as: Kinetic Theory of Matter Ideal Gas equation and Absolute Temperature Chapter 14: Oscillations Chapter 14 in Class 11 Physics Syllabus is Oscillations. Oscillation is the process of moving back and forth regularly. The Physics Class 11 Notes introduced by GeekssforGeeks teaches readers about what oscillation is and different types of oscillations. Students can learn the topics like oscillation and waves, Important terms related to oscillation like amplitude, period, acceleration, etc. The time of simple harmonic motion, Damped and forced oscillations are also discussed in these notes as listed below: Oscillatory and Periodic Motion Simple Harmonic Motion Displacement in SHM Velocity and Acceleration in SHM Force Law for SHM Energy in SHM Chapter 15: Waves The last and fifteenth Chapter in Class 11 Physics is Waves. A wave is a disturbance that travels propagates and transports energy and momentum without the transport of matter. GeeksforGeeks Class 11 Physics Notes covers important topics like the concept of waves, reflection of waves, speed of waves, Principle of superposition of waves. Our Notes also contains solved conceptual questions on each of the topic listed below: Introduction to Waves Speed of a Travelling Wave Reflection of Waves My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics Next Top 50 Blockchain Interview Questions and Answers Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 Braille System - Light | Class 8 Physics 01, Mar 21 CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 How is Physics related to Other Sciences? 25, Jun 21 Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus - Class 12 CBSE 10, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 31 Derivatives - Exercise 31.1 17, Dec 20 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.2 | Set 1 21, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Continuity - Exercise 9.1 | Set 2 18, May 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 21 Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere - Exercise 21.1 15, Jan 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Mathematical Induction - Exercise 12.1 08, Jan 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 8 Quadratic Equations - Exercise 8.3 | Set 1 08, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Binomial Distribution - Exercise 33.1 | Set 1 14, Jul 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Functions - Exercise 3.3 20, Apr 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Graphical Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 23.1 | Set 1 17, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 11 School Learning School Physics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 11 Number System and Arithmetic Sample Problems on Heat Conduction Practice Problems on Kinetic Energy Variation in Acceleration due to Gravity Augmented Assignment Operators in Python Most visited in School Learning How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data What are the 4 types of sequences? First Generation Of Computer × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !