CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Static and Kinetic Friction Algebra Factors Affecting Friction Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Statistics Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Calculus RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Limiting Friction Dispersion of Light Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Types of Friction Introduction to Mensuration Geometry NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths What causes an Earthquake? Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths Mensuration Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Multiple Reflections of Light How to Find Square Root of a Number? Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 3.5 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Static and Kinetic Friction Algebra Factors Affecting Friction Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Statistics Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Calculus RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Limiting Friction Dispersion of Light Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Types of Friction Introduction to Mensuration Geometry NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths What causes an Earthquake? Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths Mensuration Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Multiple Reflections of Light How to Find Square Root of a Number? Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 3.5 Improve Article Save Article Like Article CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Last Updated : 22 Apr, 2021 Notes for CBSE Class 8 Mathematics Concepts, helps to understand all the concepts of class 8 maths in a chapter-wise manner as it covers all the topics and subtopics provided in the syllabus of class 8 maths. The following chapter-wise notes provided by GeeksforGeeks are equipped with various shortcut techniques and step-by-step methods in order to understand and solve the problems in a better way. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Rational Numbers Any number that can be described in p/q form where q is not equal to zero is called a rational number. A rational number is a kind of real number. Or in other words, Any fraction with non-zero denominators is a rational number. Rational Numbers Representation of rational numbers on the number line Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers Reducing Equations to Simpler Form Chapter 2: Linear Equations in One Variable The linear equation in one variable is an expression that is denoted as ax+b = 0, where a and b are any two integers, and x is a variable and consists of only one solution. Linear Equations in One Variable Solve Linear Equations with Variable on both Sides Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side  Reducing Equations to Simpler Form Chapter 3: Understanding Quadrilaterals Geometrically, a quadrilateral is defined as a closed, 2-D shape that has four linear sides. The different types of quadrilaterals according to their number of edges and vertices are square, rectangle, parallelogram, trapezium, kite, rhombus. Polygons and its types Measures of the Exterior Angles of a Polygon Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram Some Special Parallelograms Chapter 4: Practical Geometry The chapter practical geometry simply means is to construct geometrical figures like squares, triangles, quadrilateral, etc. using a scale, and compass when different parameters of it are known.  Construction of a Quadrilateral Chapter 5: Data Handling Data handling refers to the process of collecting, organizing, and presenting any raw information in a way that is helpful to others like in graphs or charts, etc. Data Handling Organizing Data Grouping Data Pie Chart Chance and Probability Chapter 6: Squares and Square Roots Both the concepts of squares and square roots are opposite to each other. As the squares are used for the numbers come after multiplying the number by itself. However, the square root of a number is the value obtained when multiplied by itself to give the original value. For instance, the square of 5 is 25 and the square root of 25 is 5. Squares and Square Roots Chapter 7: Cubes and Cube roots Again both the concepts of cubes and cube roots are opposite to each other. As the cubes are used for the numbers come after multiplying the number by itself thrice. However, the cube root of a number is the value obtained when multiplied by itself thrice to give the original value. For instance, the cube of 5 is 125 and the cube root of 125 is 5. Cubes and Cube Roots Chapter 8: Comparing Quantities The chapter Comparing quantities is the most basic everyday-life application of Mathematics that deals with quantities. This includes the concepts like percentage, ratio, market price, selling price, cost price, discount and discount price, profit or loss, interest, etc.  Ratios and Percentages Percent Change & Discounts  Prices Related to Buying and Selling (Profit and Loss) Compound Interest Compound Interest Formula Sales Tax, Value Added Tax, and Goods and Services Tax  Chapter 9: Algebraic Expressions and Identities The chapter Algebraic Expressions and Identities provides information about the basics of monomials, binomials, and polynomials in an algebraic expression.  Algebraic expressions Like and Unlike Algebraic Terms Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions Types of Polynomials Multiplying Polynomials Standard Algebraic Identities Chapter 10: Visualising Solid Shapes Visualizing Solid Shapes is a concept that provides the understanding of different solids shapes when visualized in different dimensions and various terms used to describe their properties. Visualizing Solid Shapes Mapping Space Around Us Chapter 11: Mensuration Mensuration is the chapter that deals with the measurement or the calculations related to determining the area, perimeter, volume of various geometrical figures like square, cube, rectangle, cuboid, cylinder, and triangle, etc.  Introduction to Mensuration Area of Trapezium Area of Polygons Area of General Quadrilateral Surface Area of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder Volume and Capacity Chapter 12: Exponents and Powers The chapter Exponents and powers cover the primary concepts such as laws of exponents and their applications. The chapter deals with the problems using the applications of power to write large numbers in exponents and vice-versa. Negative Exponents Laws of Exponents & Use of Exponents to Express Small Numbers in Standard Form Chapter 13: Direct and Inverse Proportions This chapter gives a detailed explanation of inverse and direct proportions through problems discussed in two exercises. In which Exercise 13.1 contains a problem to determine the direct proportions between any quantity and Exercise 13.2 deals with the questions from the indirect inverse. Direct and Inverse Proportions  Chapter 14: Factorization This chapter comprises the problems on the factors of natural numbers and algebraic expressions, factorization by regrouping terms, factorization using identities, division of algebraic expressions.  Introduction to factorization Division of Algebraic Expressions Chapter 15: Introduction to Graphs This chapter is all about the basic understanding of the graphs, kinds of graphs, etc. Lately, this chapter provided an emphasis on the construction of different types of graphs and their applications. Introduction to Graphs Linear Graphs Chapter 16: Playing with Numbers All the above-mentioned chapters basically helped to learn about various kinds of numbers and their different properties likewise in this chapter the concept of numbers is discussed in a more general way.  Game of Numbers Letters for Digits Divisibility Rules Playing with Numbers My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths Next CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression ? Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths 25, Oct 20 Distance formula - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 8 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 8 Number System and Arithmetic What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Exhaustible and Inexhaustible Natural Resources Photoshop Slice Tool CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes Most visited in School Learning Cloud Deployment Models How to Align Text in HTML? Software and its Types What are the 4 types of sequences? Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !