Electronic Configuration in Periods and Groups - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Cloud Deployment Models Algebra Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Statistics Calculus Focus and Directrix of a Parabola Probability in Maths Trigonometry NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Cartesian Product of Sets Geometry Python Tokens and Character Sets Expressions in Python Principle of Mathematical Induction Newton's Law of Cooling CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Newton's Third Law of Motion General and Middle Terms - Binomial Theorem - Class 11 Maths Motion in a Vertical Circle Average and Instantaneous Rate of Change Mensuration Sample Problems on Equation of Motion Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Relations and Functions Newton's Second Law of Motion Measures of Central Tendency Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Cloud Deployment Models Algebra Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Statistics Calculus Focus and Directrix of a Parabola Probability in Maths Trigonometry NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Cartesian Product of Sets Geometry Python Tokens and Character Sets Expressions in Python Principle of Mathematical Induction Newton's Law of Cooling CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes Factors affecting Acceleration due to Gravity Newton's Third Law of Motion General and Middle Terms - Binomial Theorem - Class 11 Maths Motion in a Vertical Circle Average and Instantaneous Rate of Change Mensuration Sample Problems on Equation of Motion Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Relations and Functions Newton's Second Law of Motion Measures of Central Tendency Improve Article Save Article Like Article Electronic Configuration in Periods and Groups Last Updated : 29 Nov, 2021 The electronic configuration of a molecule refers to the distribution of electrons in various molecular orbitals. It is critical to understand the molecule. The number of electrons in bonding and antibonding molecular orbitals of a molecule or molecular ion can be calculated from its electronic configuration. An electronic configuration, also known as an electronic structure, is the arrangement of electrons at different energy levels around an atomic nucleus.  Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Long electron configurations are typically produced by the conventional notation (especially for elements having a relatively large atomic number). In such instances, a shortened or condensed notation may be employed instead of the normal notation. In shortened notation, the sequence of entirely filled subshells that correspond to a noble gas?s electronic configuration is replaced by the noble gas?s symbol in square brackets. As a result, sodium?s abbreviated electron configuration is [Ne] 3s1 (the electron configuration of neon is 1s2 2s2 2p6, which can be abbreviated to [He] 2s2 2p6). As a result, electron configurations can be used for: Determining an element?s valency Predicting the qualities of a group of elements (elements with similar electron configurations tend to exhibit similar properties). The interpretation of atomic spectra. Electronic Configuration in Periods The period of the element is the value of n, the primary quantum number, for the valence shell. The number of electrons that can be accommodated by different energy levels varies. 2n2, where n is the energy level, is the greatest number of electrons that a given energy level can allow. So the first energy level (K shell) can hold up to 2 electrons, the second (L shell) up to 8 electrons, the third (M shell) up to 18 electrons, and so on. The second period begins with Lithium and Beryllium, both of which have three and four electrons, respectively, and so the final electrons reach the level twos. The third period begins with Sodium and finishes with Argon, filling the 3s and 3p orbitals in that order. There are eight elements in this period as well. The level 4s are filled first in the fourth period with n = 4. It all starts with potassium. However, we know that the 3d orbital must be full before the 4p orbital can be filled. Scandium is the first of the three-dimensional transition elements. The 3d orbital is filled with zinc. The level 5s are filled first in the fifth period with n = 5. The 4d transition series, which begins with the Yttrium, dominates this time. The 5p orbital is completely filled by Xenon at the end of the period. With n = 6, the sixth period has 32 elements, with electrons filling the 6s, 4f, 5d, and 6p orbitals. Cerium signifies the entry of electrons into the 4f orbital, resulting in the lanthanide series of 4f-inner transition elements. The man-made radioactive elements with electrons filling the 7s, 5f, 6d, and 7p orbitals belong to the seventh period with n = 7. Similar to period 6, this period causes electrons to fill the 5f orbital, giving rise to the actinide series of 5f-inner transition elements. Electronic Configuration in Groups The outermost shells of elements in the same group have the same number of electrons, resulting in identical valence shell electrical configurations. As a result, the characteristics and chemistry of elements in the same group follow a similar pattern. Filling of Atomic Orbitals Aufbau Principle The verb Aufbeen, which means ?to build up? in German, is the source of this principle?s name. Electrons will occupy lower energy orbitals before moving on to higher energy orbitals, according to the Aufbau principle. The energy of an orbital is calculated by adding its primary and azimuthal quantum numbers. According to this principle, electrons are filled in the following order: 1s, 2s, 2p, 3s, 3p, 4s, 3d, 4p, 5s, 4d, 5p, 6s, 4f, 5d, 6p, 7s, 5f, 6d, 7p. There are a few exceptions to the Aufbau principle, such as chromium and copper. These exceptions can occasionally be explained by the stability offered by half-filled or fully filled subshells. Pauli Exclusion Principle According to the Pauli exclusion principle, an orbital can only hold a maximum of two electrons with opposite spins. This principle can be stated another way that no two electrons in the same atom have the same values for all four quantum numbers. As a result, if two electrons have the same principle, azimuthal, and magnetic numbers, they must have opposite spins. Hund?s Rule This rule specifies the order in which electrons are filled in all subshell orbitals. It asserts that every orbital in a particular subshell is solely occupied by electrons before a second electron is put in it. The electrons in orbitals with only one electron all have the same spin to maximize the total spin (or the same values of the spin quantum number). Electronic Configurations of first 20 elements of the periodic table: Element Symbol Atomic Number Electronic Configuration Hydrogen H 1 1s1 Helium He 2 1s2 Lithium Li 3 [He] 2s1 Beryllium Be 4 [He] 2s2 Boron B 5 [He] 2s2 2p1 Carbon C 6 [He] 2s2 2p2 Nitrogen N 7 [He] 2s2 2p3 Oxygen O 8 [He] 2s2 2p4 Fluorine F 9 [He] 2s2 2p5 Neon Ne 10 [He] 2s2 2p6 Sodium Na 11 [Ne] 3s1 Magnesium Mg 12 [Ne] 3s2 Aluminium Al 13 [Ne] 3s2 3p1 Silicon Si 14 [Ne] 3s2 3p2 Phosphorus P 15 [Ne] 3s2 3p3 Sulphur S 16 [Ne] 3s2 3p4 Chlorine Cl 17 [Ne] 3s2 3p5 Argon Ar 18 [Ne] 3s2 3p6 Potassium K 19 [Ar] 4s1 Calcium Ca 20 [Ar] 4s2 Sample Questions Question 1: What is the electronic configuration of an element? Answer: An element?s electronic configuration is a symbolic representation of how its atoms? electrons are arranged across different atomic orbitals. Question 2: What are the three rules to be followed while writing the electronic configuration of elements? Answer:  According to the Aufbau principle, electrons must completely fill the atomic orbitals of the previous energy level before occupying an orbital associated with a higher energy level. Electrons occupy orbitals in ascending order of increasing orbital energy level. No two electrons may have the same values for all four quantum numbers, according to Pauli?s exclusion principle. As a result, each orbital subshell can only hold a maximum of two electrons, both of which must have opposite spins. According to Hund?s maximum multiplicity rule, all subshells in an orbital must be occupied singly before any subshell can be occupied twice. In addition, all electrons in singly occupied subshells must have the same spin (in order to maximise the overall spin). Question 3: Why are electronic configurations important? Answer: Electron configurations provide insight into the chemical behaviour of elements by assisting in the determination of an atom?s valence electrons. It also aids in the separation of elements into distinct blocks (such as the s-block elements, the p-block elements, the d-block elements, and the f-block elements). This makes it simple to look into the properties of the components as a whole. Question 4: What is the Pauli exclusion principle? Answer: An orbital can only hold a maximum of two electrons with opposite spins, according to the Pauli exclusion principle. Question 5: What is Hund?s rule? Answer: Hund?s rule specifies the order in which electrons are filled in all of a subshell?s orbitals. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous How to add positive and negative numbers? Next How many permutations can be formed by sampling 5 items from 6 without replacement? Recommended Articles Page : Electronic Configuration of Elements 01, Sep 21 Java Program to Calculate Difference Between Two Time Periods 10, Dec 20 What is EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)? 21, Jun 21 How to store deployment configuration files in Node.js ? 27, Feb 20 How to View Configuration Files Without Comments in Linux? 10, Mar 21 Different Ways to Fix "Configuration with name 'default' not found" in Android Studio 22, Mar 21 How to Handle Configuration Changes in Android? 21, May 21 Designing a Serial port configuration using cisco packet tracer 12, Nov 21 Alkali Metals - Configuration, Properties, Applications 17, Nov 21 Difference between Blogs and News Groups 01, Aug 21 Alkyl Groups and Cyclic Hydrocarbons 09, Nov 21 groups command in Linux with examples 20, Dec 18 Bootstrap 4 | Button Groups 16, May 19 Apply Operations To Groups In Pandas 15, Dec 20 Count unique values with Pandas per groups 22, Feb 21 Take random sample based on groups in R 14, Jul 21 Numbering Rows within Groups of DataFrame in R 19, Sep 21 What are Button Groups in Bootstrap ? 29, Sep 21 Explain Input groups in Bootstrap Development 07, Oct 21 How do we create large button groups in Bootstrap ? 07, Oct 21 Create a Scatter Plot with Multiple Groups using ggplot2 in R 21, Oct 21 Functional Groups in Organic Compounds 09, Nov 21 In how many ways can 10 people be divided into two groups of five people? 19, Nov 21 Input Groups in Bootstrap with Examples 23, Jan 19 Article Contributed By : Prateek Sharma 7 @Prateek Sharma 7 Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 11 Number System and Arithmetic Sample Problems on Heat Conduction Variation in Acceleration due to Gravity Practice Problems on Kinetic Energy Augmented Assignment Operators in Python Most visited in School Chemistry Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Pure and Impure Substances Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Exhaustible and Inexhaustible Natural Resources × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !