GeeksforGeeks School - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article GeeksforGeeks School Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 09 Nov, 2021 The core vision behind the GeeksforGeeks School initiative is to provide the school students with quality learning resources and to make the learning process better than ever for them. From free Coding Programs for kids to beginner-level online courses for numerous tech skills to concepts, exercises & solutions of various subjects for Classes 8 to 12 ? there?s almost everything for school students! Here, we will introduce various technological advancements such as animated videos, live-streaming, campus programs, etc. for a more engaging and worthwhile learning experience for students. You will get the video lectures, articles, practice tracks on various subjects without any cost or at very much affordable prices! We have categorized GeeksforGeeks School into the following parts: Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. First Step to Coding ? Live Course GeeksforGeeks School ? YouTube Videos GeeksforGeeks Beginner-Level Courses for Students Class 8 to 12 Concepts, Excercise & Solutions GeeksforGeeks School Ambassador Program First Step to Coding ? Live Course GeeksforGeeks is providing the First Step to Coding ? Live Course for the students of the 8th-12th class to introduce them to the world of Coding in the most interesting way! Here, students will get to learn about basic concepts of programming like strings, loops, functions, and more in Python language. Moreover, the course will improve the problem-solving skills of the students to start writing efficient and correct codes. Other than that, the classes will be taken by our mentors who are experts in this field and will guide you throughout. GeeksforGeeks School ? YouTube Videos HTML Workshop Live: Learning HTML is very much necessary to become a web developer. Here, we?re providing you with a 5-week workshop for HTML. There will be a total of 10 sessions over a period of 5 weeks where you?ll get to learn HTML from scratch. Live Python Class: Learning a new programming language has always been a daunting task. But to simplify things ? we?re providing you with a 5-week workshop that will surely help you to get started with the renowned programming language. Puzzles: Solving puzzles is undoubtedly the best exercise for your brain that too along with having fun simultaneously. Here, we?re providing you with several most exciting puzzles that you need to solve ? so let?s check these out, and yes, do not try to cheat by skipping the video to see the answer. Introduction to C Programming: C is a highly recognized programming language across the world, and it is the first programming language also of a huge number of individuals as it allows you to understand a lot of underlying processes & mechanisms of the Programming domain. Create Real-World Games Using Game Lab: Game Lab is a programming environment that allows you to create simple animations and games with objects and characters that interact with each other. Here, in this tutorial, you?ll get to learn to build Mobile Games from scratch using the Block-based programming interface with Game Lab (Code.org). For more playlists, do check out the official GFG School YouTube channel.  GeeksforGeeks Beginner-Level Courses for Students Python Programming for School students: Python is strongly recommended to beginners or school students to get started with coding due to its ease of learning. This Python course by GeeksforGeeks entails a variety of theories along with activities to let your child understand the foundations of Python. Web Design for Beginners (HTML) Course: Here, you will be learning everything to kickstart your journey of web designing with HTML. Its purpose is to design web pages using a marked-up language and this is also the first step one takes to design their own website. This course is designed for beginners, or anybody else with a zeal to learn a new skill and will be taught by industry experts as well! Create Real-World Apps in App Labs: This course will help all the young ones to make their ideas into reality by enabling them to design their own apps! App Lab is a programming platform where you can make simple apps and in this course, you?ll be introduced to the world of Mobile Applications where you?ll learn how to create User Interfaces from wireframes and also make the UI interactive by writing behind the scene programs for them. Java for Beginners: It is a beginner-level course that has been designed to build and strengthen your programming basics using Java. This course introduces computer programming fundamentals using the JAVA programming language in the easiest possible manner and here, you?ll learn the basics of Java so you can advance to tougher concepts and how to solve coding questions easily and efficiently. C for Beginners: This course has especially been designed for absolute beginners who want to build their programming foundation through C. It doesn?t matter if you are in high school or are in the first year of your college, if you have the curiosity to learn to code, then this course is for you. Also, as it is a self-paced course, you can learn all the concepts at your own pace and time. Class 8 to 12 Concepts, Excercise & Solutions We?re providing you with quality content on various subjects for Classes 8 to 12. It will be a one-stop destination for all your learning concerns, for instance ? if you want to learn any specific subject of a particular class, you will get it here or if you want to practice the exercises questions, it will also be provided here. Moreover, the entire content for all the subjects is prepared by the respective subject experts and in an optimized & creative manner. You can access the content for particular classes from below: Class 8 ? Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 9 ? Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 10 ? Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 11 ? Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 12 ? Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions School Ambassador Program The GeeksforGeeks School Ambassador Program is a program consisting of Geeks all over the country who are ready to lead their younger generation towards greatness. You will be part of a community of Geeks and will start a community of like-minded people within your schools. A good amount of guidance at an early stage goes a long way. So if you think you?re somebody who can lead and extract greatness out of individuals, this opportunity is for you. So what are you waiting for? Be the Wonder Woman or Superman of somebody?s journey and apply for this program today! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Count M-length substrings occurring exactly K times in a string Next Most frequent character in a string after replacing all occurrences of X in a Binary String Recommended Articles Page : How to add articles to ?To Do? and ?Done? lists on GeeksforGeeks? 06, Apr 16 What are the benefits of interning as content writer at GeeksforGeeks? 24, Mar 17 How Content Writing at GeeksforGeeks works? 02, Aug 18 A Must Do Interview Preparation Course by GeeksforGeeks 15, Dec 18 GRE 2021 General Test Series | GeeksforGeeks 11, Mar 19 Geek Week ? Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks 10, Oct 19 Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course - Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company 24, Sep 19 System Design - Live Course By GeeksforGeeks 04, Mar 21 Black Friday Sale - Programmers Have Carts, GeeksforGeeks Has Deals! 25, Nov 19 Best Way To Start With Competitive Programming - GeeksforGeeks CP Live Course 13, Nov 19 Don't Let Your Geographical Location Be A Barrier In Your Success - Live Classes By GeeksforGeeks 19, Nov 19 Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks 06, Dec 19 The Technical Scripter Event 2019 By GeeksforGeeks 13, Jan 20 Get Ahead of Your Peers With GeeksforGeeks's Live Courses 24, Jan 20 Learn At Your Own Convenience With GeeksforGeeks's Online Courses 21, Feb 20 Coderita - Online Coding Competition For Women By GeeksforGeeks 01, Mar 20 GeeksforGeeks Coderita - Empowering Women To Code 06, Mar 20 Become Leader of Coding Era - GeeksforGeeks Campus Ambassador Program 20, Mar 20 Write From Home Challenge - Technical Content Writing Event By GeeksforGeeks 04, Apr 20 ProGeek Cup 2021 ? A Project Competition By GeeksforGeeks 11, May 21 GeeksforGeeks Complete Interview Preparation Course - Get a Job in your Dream Company! 29, Jun 20 Why GeeksforGeeks is an Essential Platform for CS/IT Students? 19, Jul 20 Technical Scripter Event 2020 By GeeksforGeeks 01, Feb 21 GeeksforGeeks Elite Batch - 1 Results 05, Sep 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : madhur912 Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 GBlog NCERT RD Sharma Solutions School Learning Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !