Lower and Upper Bound Theory - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Algorithms | Set 4 (Analysis of Loops) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 2 (Worst, Average and Best Cases) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 3 (Asymptotic Notations) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 4 (Solving Recurrences) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 5 (Amortized Analysis Introduction) What does ?Space Complexity? mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms NP-Completeness | Set 1 (Introduction) A Time Complexity Question Merge Sort QuickSort HeapSort Binary Heap Time Complexity of building a heap Applications of Heap Data Structure Binomial Heap Fibonacci Heap | Set 1 (Introduction) Fibonacci Heap ? Insertion and Union Fibonacci Heap ? Deletion, Extract min and Decrease key Leftist Tree / Leftist Heap K-ary Heap Iterative HeapSort Top 50 Array Coding Problems for Interviews Recursion Difference between BFS and DFS A* Search Algorithm How to write a Pseudo Code? Playfair Cipher with Examples Recursive Practice Problems with Solutions Table of Contents Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Algorithms | Set 4 (Analysis of Loops) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 2 (Worst, Average and Best Cases) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 3 (Asymptotic Notations) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 4 (Solving Recurrences) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 5 (Amortized Analysis Introduction) What does ?Space Complexity? mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms NP-Completeness | Set 1 (Introduction) A Time Complexity Question Merge Sort QuickSort HeapSort Binary Heap Time Complexity of building a heap Applications of Heap Data Structure Binomial Heap Fibonacci Heap | Set 1 (Introduction) Fibonacci Heap ? Insertion and Union Fibonacci Heap ? Deletion, Extract min and Decrease key Leftist Tree / Leftist Heap K-ary Heap Iterative HeapSort Top 50 Array Coding Problems for Interviews Recursion Difference between BFS and DFS A* Search Algorithm How to write a Pseudo Code? Playfair Cipher with Examples Recursive Practice Problems with Solutions Improve Article Save Article Like Article Lower and Upper Bound Theory Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 12 Nov, 2021 The Lower and Upper Bound Theory provides a way to find the lowest complexity algorithm to solve a problem. Before understanding the theory, first, let?s have a brief look at what actually Lower and Upper bounds are.  Lower Bound ?  Let L(n) be the running time of an algorithm A(say), then g(n) is the Lower Bound of A if there exist two constants C and N such that L(n) >= C*g(n) for n > N. Lower bound of an algorithm is shown by the asymptotic notation called Big Omega (or just Omega).    Upper Bound ?  Let U(n) be the running time of an algorithm A(say), then g(n) is the Upper Bound of A if there exist two constants C and N such that U(n) <= C*g(n) for n > N. Upper bound of an algorithm is shown by the asymptotic notation called Big Oh(O) (or just Oh). 1. Lower Bound Theory:  According to the lower bound theory, for a lower bound L(n) of an algorithm, it is not possible to have any other algorithm (for a common problem) whose time complexity is less than L(n) for random input. Also, every algorithm must take at least L(n) time in the worst case. Note that L(n) here is the minimum of all the possible algorithms, of maximum complexity.  The Lower Bound is very important for any algorithm. Once we calculated it, then we can compare it with the actual complexity of the algorithm and if their order is the same then we can declare our algorithm as optimal. So in this section, we will be discussing techniques for finding the lower bound of an algorithm.  Attention reader! Don?t stop learning now. Get hold of all the important DSA concepts with the DSA Self Paced Course at a student-friendly price and become industry ready.  To complete your preparation from learning a language to DS Algo and many more,  please refer Complete Interview Preparation Course. In case you wish to attend live classes with experts, please refer DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals and Competitive Programming Live for Students. Note that our main motive is to get an optimal algorithm, which is the one having it?s Upper Bound Same as its Lower Bound (U(n)=L(n)). Merge Sort is a common example of an optimal algorithm. Trivial Lower Bound ?  It is the easiest method to find the lower bound. The Lower bounds which can be easily observed on the basis of the number of input taken and the number of output produced are called Trivial Lower Bound.  Example: Multiplication of n x n matrix, where,  Input: For 2 matrix we will have 2n2 inputs
Output: 1 matrix of order n x n, i.e.,  n2 outputs In the above example it?s easily predictable that the lower bound is O(n2).  Computational Model ?  The method is for all those algorithms that are comparison-based. For example, in sorting, we have to compare the elements of the list among themselves and then sort them accordingly. Similar is the case with searching and thus we can implement the same in this case. Now we will look at some examples to understand its usage. Ordered Searching ?  It is a type of searching in which the list is already sorted. Example-1: Linear search  Explanation ?  In linear search, we compare the key with the first element if it does not match we compare it with the second element and so on till we check against the nth element. Else we will end up with a failure.  Example-2: Binary search  Explanation ?  In binary search, we check the middle element against the key, if it is greater we search the first half else we check the second half and repeat the same process.  The diagram below there is an illustration of binary search in an array consisting of 4 elements    Calculating the lower bound: The max no of comparisons are n. Let there be k levels in the tree.  No. of nodes will be 2k-1 The upper bound of no of nodes in any comparison-based search of an element in the list of size n will be n as there are a maximum of n comparisons in worst case scenario 2k-1 Each level will take 1 comparison thus no. of comparisons k?|log2n| Thus the lower bound of any comparison-based search from a list of n elements cannot be less than log(n). Therefore we can say that Binary Search is optimal as its complexity is ?(log n). Sorting ?  The diagram below is an example of a tree formed in sorting combinations with 3 elements. Example ? For n elements, finding lower bound using computation model.  Explanation ?  For n elements, we have a total of n! combinations (leaf nodes). (Refer to the diagram the total combinations are 3! or 6) also, it is clear that the tree formed is a binary tree. Each level in the diagram indicates a comparison. Let there be k levels => 2k is the total number of leaf nodes in a full binary tree thus in this case we have n!?2k. As the k in the above example is the no of comparisons thus by computational model lower bound = k.   Now we can say that,
n!?2T(n)
Thus, 
T(n)>|log n!| 
=> n!<=nn
Thus,
log n!<=log nn
Taking ceiling function on both sides, we get
|-log nn-|>=|-log n!-|
Thus complexity becomes ?(lognn) or ?(nlogn) Using Lower bond theory to solve the algebraic problem: Straight Line Program ?  The type of program built without any loops or control structures is called the Straight Line Program. For example, C //summing to nos Sum(a, b) {      //no loops and no control structures      c:= a+b;      return c; } Algebraic Problem ?  Problems related to algebra like solving equations inequalities etc. come under algebraic problems. For example, solving equation ax2+bx+c with simple programming. C Algo_Sol(a, b, c, x) {      //1 assignment      v:=a*x;        //1 assignment      v:=v+b;        //1 assignment      v:=v*x;        //1 assignment      ans:=v+c;      return ans; }    The complexity for solving here is 4 (excluding the returning).  The above example shows us a simple way to solve an equation for 2-degree polynomial i.e., 4 thus for nth degree polynomial we will have a complexity of O(n2).  Let us demonstrate via an algorithm.  Example: x+a0 is a polynomial of degree n. C pow (x, n)    {      p := 1;          //loop from 1 to n      for i:=1 to n          p := p*x;        return p;    }   polynomial(A, x, n)    {       int p, v:=0;       for i := 0 to n               //loop within a loop from 0 to n           v := v + A[i]* pow (x, i);       return v;    } Loop within a loop => complexity = O(n2); Now to find an optimal algorithm we need to find the lower bound here (as per lower bound theory). As per Lower Bound Theory, The optimal algorithm to solve the above problem is the one having complexity O(n). Let?s prove this theorem using lower bounds. Theorem: To prove that optimal algo of solving a n degree polynomial is O(n)  Proof: The best solution for reducing the algo is to make this problem less complex by dividing the polynomial into several straight-line problems. => anxn+an-1xn-1+an-2xn-2+...+a1x+a0 
can be written as, 
((..(anx+an-1)x+..+a2)x+a1)x+a0
Now, algorithm will be as,
v=0
v=v+an
v=v*x
v=v+an-1
v=v*x
...
v=v+a1
v=v*x
v=v+a0 C polynomial(A, x, n)       {        int p, v=0;          // loop executed n times        for i = n to 0               v = (v + A[i])*x;             return v;        } Clearly, the complexity of this code is O(n). This way of solving such equations is called Horner?s method. Here is where lower bound theory works and gives the optimum algorithm?s complexity as O(n).  2. Upper Bound Theory:  According to the upper bound theory, for an upper bound U(n) of an algorithm, we can always solve the problem at most U(n) time. Time taken by a known algorithm to solve a problem with worse case input gives us the upper bound.   My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Next Analysis of Algorithms | Set 4 (Analysis of Loops) Recommended Articles Page : Scala | Upper bound 28, Feb 19 Scala | Lower Bound 12, Mar 19 Python program to count upper and lower case characters without using inbuilt functions 06, Apr 18 Shell Script to Convert a File Content to Lower Case or Upper Case 18, Apr 21 Bound, unbound, and static methods in Python 27, Dec 19 0/1 Knapsack using Least Cost Branch and Bound 28, Jun 20 Generate Binary Strings of length N using Branch and Bound 20, Nov 19 Difference between Backtracking and Branch-N-Bound technique 09, Jun 20 Scala - View Bound 27, Jun 20 How to specify which form element a label is bound to ? 12, Apr 21 Java Program to Display Upper Triangular Matrix 27, Oct 20 Convert given upper triangular Matrix to 1D Array 07, Dec 20 Node.js MySQL UPPER() Function 16, Feb 21 Java Program to Print Upper Star Triangle Pattern 15, Mar 21 How to set the background image start from the upper left corner of the content using CSS? 28, Apr 21 Java Program to Print Mirror Upper Star Triangle Pattern 21, Mar 21 Convert given lower triangular Matrix to 1D array 09, Feb 21 Lower Insertion Point 20, Dec 18 Minimum number of operations to move all uppercase characters before all lower case characters 01, Feb 19 Java Program to Display Lower Triangular Matrix 09, Nov 20 Java Program to Check Whether a Given Matrix is Lower Triangular Matrix or Not 05, Jan 21 Node.js MySQL LOWER() Function 16, Feb 21 Java Program to Print Mirror Lower Star Triangle Pattern 15, Mar 21 Efficient method to store a Lower Triangular Matrix using Column-major mapping 15, Jun 21 Article Contributed By : piyush25pv @piyush25pv Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : soumya7 sriharimalla001 pawan1996 23603vaibhav2021 Article Tags : Picked Technical Scripter 2018 Algorithms Analysis Technical Scripter Practice Tags : Algorithms Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Algorithms Quick Sort vs Merge Sort Difference between NP hard and NP complete problem Difference Between Symmetric and Asymmetric Key Encryption Rail Fence Cipher - Encryption and Decryption Generate all permutation of a set in Python Most visited in Analysis Practice Questions on Time Complexity Analysis Analysis of Algorithms | Set 1 (Asymptotic Analysis) Complexity of different operations in Binary tree, Binary Search Tree and AVL tree Understanding Time Complexity with Simple Examples Analysis of different sorting techniques × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !