Maths MAQ Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Category Archives: Maths MAQ If tan A = (sin ? ? cos ?)/(sin ? + cos ?) then prove that sin ? + cos ? = ± ?2 cos A Trigonometry is a branch of mathematics that deals with trigonometric ratios that are used to determine the angles and unknown sides of a triangle. Angles? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Solve (4a2 ? 2a +15) + (a2 + 3a ? 11) Algebra is the branch of mathematics that deals with the study of numerals and variables. It helps to represent the conditions or problems in the? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics What are the primary functions of trigonometry? Trigonometry is a discipline of mathematics that studies the relationships between the lengths of the sides and angles of a right-angled triangle. Trigonometric functions, also? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Find the area of the rhombus whose side is 6 cm and altitude is 3.8 cm Rhombus is a kind of Quadrilateral, it is a 2-dimensional simple plane figure with a closed shape. A rhombus comes under the category of a? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Two cubes have their volumes in the ratio 1:27, then find the ratio of their surface areas Cube is a three-dimensional figure composed of six square faces, facets, or sides, with three meeting at each vertex. There are square sheets stacked together? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Is 1.3333 a rational number? The method to represent and work with numbers is known as the number system. A number system is a system of writing to represent numbers.? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Evaluate the series: (a) sum_{k=1}^{20) k (b) sum_{j = 1}^{60} 5 j^2 (c) sum_{i = 1}^{11} 2ln3-5i The number system is a concept of representing numbers on a defined number line using digits (0 ? 9) and a primitive set of rules? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics What happens to the surface area of cuboid, if its length, breadth and height is doubled? Mensuration is a branch of mathematics that deals with the study of geometric figures and parameters such as volume, area, surface area, etc. It can? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Find the real and imaginary parts of ei/2 Complex numbers are the superset of real numbers. Or we can say that complex numbers are part of the number system in mathematic. In 1799? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics How many six-letter words can one generate with the letters of the word CANADA? In mathematics, permutation is known as the process of arranging a set in which all the members of a set are arranged into some series? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics What are the chances of flipping 10 heads in a row? A branch of mathematics that deals with the happening of a random event is termed probability. It is used in Maths to predict how likely? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Simplify cos4theta ? sin4theta Algebraic expressions are those equations that are obtained when operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, etc. are operated upon by any variable. Algebraic expressions contain? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Simplify t-2/3/t3/4 Algebra is the branch of mathematics that deals with the study of various symbols which represent such quantities as do not have a constant value? Read More Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics If the length of a rectangle is increased by 60%, by what percentage would be the width have to be decreased to maintain the same area? Everything that surrounds us has a definite shape except for liquids. Starting from our mobile phones, laptops to our cupboards, water bottles, microwave oven, kitchen? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics How to simplify the 4th root of 4? Algebra is the branch of mathematics that deals with the study of various symbols which represent such quantities as do not have a constant value? Read More Picked Maths MAQ School Learning School Mathematics Page 1 of 46 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 20 30 ... » Last » What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Maths MAQ What are the 4 types of sequences? How many whole numbers are there between 1 and 100? How to convert a whole number into a decimal? If one-third of one-fourth of a number is 15, then what is the three-tenth of that number? Three times the first of three consecutive odd integers is 3 more than twice the third. What is the third integer? Most Visited in Maths MAQ If tan (A + B) = ?3 and tan (A ? B) = 1/?3, 0° < A + B ? 90°; A > B, then find A and B How to calculate a square root? What is the formula of tan(A - B)? What is the probability of getting a sum of 7 when two dice are thrown? Find the sum of first 50 natural numbers × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !