NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Applications of Heron's Formula Angle Sum Property of a Quadrilateral What is the Unit of Temperature? Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Input and Output Devices Statistics Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Calculus What is Multimedia? Pure and Impure Substances Probability in Maths Trigonometry What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Real Numbers Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Geometry Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Wired and Wireless Networking Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Acceleration due to Gravity Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 Mensuration Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Applications of Heron's Formula Angle Sum Property of a Quadrilateral What is the Unit of Temperature? Improve Article Save Article Like Article NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Last Updated : 06 May, 2021 NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths provides chapter-wise solutions to problems given in the respective NCERT textbook. The questions solved here in the solutions provided by GeeksforGeeks, give an approach to understand the concepts in a better way. This solution covers all the chapters in the NCERT book like Number System, Coordinate Geometry, Triangles, Circles, Mensuration, and many more with solutions for all the relevant exercises. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Number Systems  The chapter Number systems briefly cover the concept of rational and irrational numbers, real numbers, and their representation on the number line. Along with the laws of rational exponents and integral powers. This chapter in total consists of six exercises, Exercise 1.1 helps to learn the basics of rational and irrational numbers, Exercise 1.2 explains the concept of real numbers and their expansion. Further, Exercise 1.3 helps to learn ?How to represent real numbers on the number line?. Later, in exercises 1.4, 1.5, and 1.6 mathematical operations, rationalizing, and laws of rational exponents and integral powers for real numbers are discussed. Exercise 1.1 Exercise 1.2 Exercise 1.3 Exercise 1.4 Exercise 1.5 Exercise 1.6 Chapter 2: Polynomials The chapter Polynomials guides to learn polynomials of degree 1 (Linear polynomials), 2 (quadratic polynomials), and 3 (cubic polynomials), etc, and terminology related to it. This chapter also covers the concept of factor theorem, algebraic identities of quadratic polynomials, split the middle theorem, algebraic identities for cubic polynomials, etc. In this chapter five exercises are there in which Exercises 2.1, and 2.2 cover topics like polynomials in one variable, zeroes of a polynomial, types of polynomials, and their degree. Exercises 2.3 and 2.4 are based on the concept of the factor theorem. Further, Exercise 2.5 helps to learn the algebraic identities of quadratic and cubic polynomials and split the middle theorem. Exercise 2.1 Exercise 2.2 Exercise 2.3 Exercise 2.4 Exercise 2.5 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 3: Coordinate Geometry  This chapter helps to learn the concepts of the Cartesian plane and various terminology related to it in detail. There are three exercises in this chapter, Exercise 3.1 explained How to locate a point on the coordinate plane?. While Exercises 3.2 and 3.3 discussed the topic ?Plotting a point in the plane if its coordinates are given?. Exercise 3.1 Exercise 3.2 Exercise 3.3 Chapter 4: Linear Equations in Two Variables  Linear equations in one variable have been already discussed in earlier classes which deals with unique solutions. Now, in this chapter linear equation comes with two variables like ax + by + c = 0. Exercises 4.1 and 4.3 are designed to learn about the formation and determination of the solution of a linear equation in two variables. However, Exercises 4.3 and 4.4 gave detail learning of the topic of the graph of a linear equation in two variables. Exercise 4.1 Exercise 4.2 Exercise 4.3  Exercise 4.4 Chapter 5: Introduction to Euclid?s Geometry The chapter Introduction to Euclid?s Geometry explains Euclid?s method to geometry and linked it with modern day?s geometry. Euclid approached geometry by defining different axioms and postulates. This chapter contains two exercises, both Exercises 5.1 and 5.2 are based on the terms defined in the provided axioms and postulates. Exercise 5.1  Exercise 5.2 Chapter 6: Lines and Angles As the name of the chapter says, this chapter deals with the properties of the angle formed when two or more lines intersect each other and the properties of these angles formed. This chapter consists of three exercises in which Exercises 6.1 and 6.2 give the knowledge about the different types of angles linear, reflex, right, obtuse, acute, complementary, and supplementary angles and their measures. Moreover, Exercise 6.3 covers the topic of angle sum property.  Exercise 6.1 Exercise 6.2 Exercise 6.3 Chapter 7: Triangles This chapter gives a detailed description of the congruence of triangles, their rules, properties, and the inequalities in triangles. In total five exercises, the latter topics are covered. Exercises 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3 lay emphases on the topic of congruence of triangles and properties of triangles. Further, Exercises 7.4 and 7.5 are based on the triangle inequalities. Exercise 7.1 Exercise 7.2 Exercise 7.3 Exercise 7.4 Exercise 7.5 Chapter 8: Quadrilateral The chapter Quadrilateral is all about the different types of quadrilaterals (rectangle, square, parallelogram, trapezium, etc) and their different properties like the angle sum property of a quadrilateral. Further, a brief introduction of the midpoint theorem and its converse is provided in the last section of the chapter. This chapter consists of two exercises, in which exercise 8.1 helps to learn about the different properties of different quadrilaterals while exercise 8.2 explains the application of the mid-point theorem and its converse. Exercise 8.1 Exercise 8.2 Chapter 9: Areas of Parallelograms and Triangles As the name suggests Areas of parallelogram and triangles, this chapter gives the understanding of the formula to determine the areas of different closed shapes using the relation between the areas of different geometric shapes. A total of four exercises present in the chapter in which Exercise 9.1 is based on the topic ?Figures on the Same Base and Between the same parallels?. While Exercise 9.2 is based on the problems on the theorem for the parallelograms that have the same area and Exercises 9.3 and 9.4 cover the problems from the topic, triangles on the same base and between the same Parallels. Exercise 9.1 Exercise 9.2 Exercise 9.3 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 9.4 Chapter 10: Circles  This chapter is related to the different properties and the terminology of the circles. Total 6 exercises are there in the chapter, Exercise 10.1 and 10.2 are related to the terminologies and the basic properties of the circles. However, Exercise 10.3 is based on the two theorems of the circles. Exercise 10.4 works upon the problem related to equal chords and their distances from the centre. Moreover, exercises 10.5 and 10.6 are based on the topics and theorems related to the angle subtended by an arc of a circle. Exercise 10.1 Exercise 10.2 Exercise 10.3 Exercise 10.4 Exercise 10.5 Exercise 10.6 Chapter 11: Constructions  The chapter Constructions in this class helps to understand the approach to construct different types of triangles for different given conditions. This chapter comprises of two exercises in which the problems in Exercise 11.1 deal with the construction of a different angle or the bisector of a given angle while, Exercise 11.2 are related to constructions of triangles, in the case when different parameters are given. Exercise 11.1 Exercise 11.2 Chapter 12: Heron?s Formula This chapter discusses only Heron?s formula and its applications which are used to determine the area of a triangle when all the three sides of the triangles are provided. The chapter comprises of only two exercises, both Exercises 12.1 and 12.2 consist of problems related to the application of Heron?s formula. Exercise 12.1 Exercise 12.2 Chapter 13: Surface Areas and Volumes The chapter Surface areas and volumes mainly deal with the formula, to determine the surface areas and volumes of different shapes like cube, cuboid, and cylinder and their applications. The problems related to each topic of this chapter are discussed in nine different exercises. Exercises 13.1, 13.2, and 13.3 concepts like the surface areas and volume of the various geometrical shapes like cube, cuboid, and more. However, Exercises 13.4, 13.5, 13.6, 13.7, 13.8, and 13.9 are focused on the problems based on the applications of the mentioned formulae. Exercise 13.1  Exercise 13.2  Exercise 13.3 Exercise 13.4  Exercise 13.5 Exercise 13.6  Exercise 13.7 Exercise 13.8  Exercise 13.9 Chapter 14: Statistics  This chapter helps to learn the representation of data in a different manner along with the frequency distribution. With the help of total four exercises the concept of graphical representation of data, using various graphs like Frequency polygons, Histograms, Bar graphs, etc. Exercise 14.1 comprises of the descriptive problems to understand the basics of statistics and Exercise 14.2 helps to learn to plot the frequency distribution table for the given data. While, Exercise 14.3 include problems on frequency polygons and histogram, and Exercise 14.4 is based on the concept of mean, mode, and median. Exercise 14.1 Exercise 14.2 Exercise 14.3 Exercise 14.4 Chapter 15: Probability The last chapter Probability discusses the concept of the Chances of occurrence of a specific outcome in an experiment. This chapter consists of only one exercise which is based on the problems from everyday life examples to understand the experimental approach to probability. Exercise 15.1 My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Next NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Recommended Articles Page : NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths 19, Apr 21 Algebraic Solutions of Linear Inequalities in One Variable and their Graphical Representation - Linear Inequalities | Class 11 Maths 10, Nov 20 RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths 20, Apr 21 RD Sharma Class 11 Solutions for Maths 02, Jun 21 RD Sharma Class 12 Solutions for Maths 03, Jun 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 1 Number System - Exercise 1.5 17, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.1 24, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.1 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.2 06, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.2 26, Feb 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 5 Continuity And Differentiability - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 17, Apr 21 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 5 Complex Numbers And Quadratic Equations - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 | Set 2 22, Mar 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.3 | Set 2 21, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.3 01, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Introduction to Euclid's Geometry - Exercise 5.2 25, Dec 20 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part II - Chapter 9 Differential Equations-Exercise -9.2 06, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : ysachin2314 Article Tags : NCERT Solutions Class-9 Class 9 NCERT School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 9 Number System and Arithmetic Collection and Presentation of Data Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Separation of Mixtures Reflection of Sound Most visited in NCERT Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Application of Derivatives - Exercise 6.2| Set 2 × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !