NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths GeeksforGeeks School Static and Kinetic Friction Algebra Factors Affecting Friction Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Statistics Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Calculus RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Limiting Friction Dispersion of Light Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Types of Friction Introduction to Mensuration Geometry What causes an Earthquake? Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths Mensuration Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Table of Contents NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths GeeksforGeeks School Static and Kinetic Friction Algebra Factors Affecting Friction Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Statistics Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Calculus RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Limiting Friction Dispersion of Light Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Types of Friction Introduction to Mensuration Geometry What causes an Earthquake? Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths Mensuration Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Improve Article Save Article Like Article NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Last Updated : 22 Apr, 2021 NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths consists of the chapter-wise solutions of all the problems provided in the NCERT textbook for Class 8 Mathematics. GeeksforGeeks has created a detailed chapter-wise solution for the NCERT book of class 8 that contains problems on various topics like Rational Numbers, Linear Equations, Quadrilaterals, Data Handling, and many more. Each chapter in this solution thoroughly covers every exercise along with a detailed step-by-step explanation of the solutions. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Rational Numbers The chapter Rational numbers mainly discuss the characteristics of all the real numbers, integers, whole numbers, rational numbers, and natural numbers. This chapter consists of two exercises only in which the problems in Exercise 1.1 are related to the properties of the rational numbers (closure, commutativity, associativity, etc). However, in Exercise 1.2 the problems are related to the advanced concepts of the rational number like the representation of rational numbers on a number line and to determine any numbers of rational number between any two rational numbers. Exercise 1.1 Exercise 1.2 Chapter 2: Linear Equations in One Variable The linear equations in one variable deal with the expression defined in one variable only and its algebraic operations. This chapter contains six different exercises that have problems based on the linear equations in one variable and its application. Exercises 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, and 2.4 are designed to determine the solution of the linear equation. However, Exercises 2.5 and 2.6 are based on the topic equations reducible to the linear form. Exercise 2.1 Exercise 2.2 Exercise 2.3 Exercise 2.4 Exercise 2.5 Exercise 2.6 Chapter 3: Understanding Quadrilaterals This chapter covers all types of quadrilaterals such as polygonal shapes like square, rectangle, triangle, pentagon, hexagon, etc. In total, this chapter contains four exercises in which Exercise 3.1 covers the problems on the definition of various polygons and their properties, Exercise 3.2 is based on the concept of the Angle sum property of a polygon. However, Exercise 3.3 covers the elements and the properties of quadrilaterals like trapezium, kite, and parallelogram, and Exercise 3.4 is designed to learn some special types of parallelogram like square, rectangle, and rhombus. Exercise 3.1 Exercise 3.2 Exercise 3.3 Exercise 3.4 Chapter 4: Practical Geometry The chapter practical geometry helps to learn the construction of quadrilateral when different parameters of it are known. This chapter contains a total of five exercises only in which Exercise 4.1 covers the problem for the case when the lengths of four sides and a diagonal are given. Similarly, Exercises 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4 are based on the topics when two diagonals and three sides are known, two adjacent sides and three angles are given and three sides and two included angles are provided. However, Exercise 4.5 contains problems based on some special cases. Exercise 4.1 Exercise 4.2 Exercise 4.3 Exercise 4.4 Exercise 4.5 Chapter 5: Data Handling Data handling is a method of organizing data or information systematically using diagrams like bar graphs, pictographs, pie charts, and histograms. This chapter consists of only three exercises. Exercise 5.1 is based on the basic concept of representing, organizing, and grouping the data provided while Exercise 5.2 helps to make a pie chart for the given data. Moreover, Exercise 5.3 coves the topic that helps to understand the basic concept of probability. Exercise 5.1 Exercise 5.2  Exercise 5.3 Chapter 6: Squares and Square Roots As the name of the chapter says, Squares and square roots this chapter gives the knowledge of the concept to determine the squares and square root of a number. The different properties and the pattern followed to find a square number are discussed in four exercises. Exercises 6.1 and 6.2 are based on the basic idea of the square numbers and different ways to determine them. Though Exercises 6.4 and 6.5 are focused on the concept of the determination of the square root of a number. Exercise 6.1 Exercise 6.2 Exercise 6.3 Exercise 6.4 Chapter 7: Cubes and Cube roots Again, as the title of the chapter suggest that Cubes and Cube roots this chapter helps to understand the concept to determine the cubes and cube root of a number. The different patterns followed to find a cube and cube root of a number are discussed in only two exercises. Exercises 7.1 contains the problem to determine whether the given number is a perfect cube or not. And Exercises 7.2 focused on the idea of the cube root and the determination of the cube root of a number. Exercise 7.1 Exercise 7.2 Chapter 8: Comparing Quantities This chapter gives a basic understanding of the topics such as increased and decreased percentage, market price, selling price, cost price, discount, and discount price, profit or loss, interest, etc. Total there are three exercises in this chapter, Exercise 8.1 based on the topics ratios and percentage, and Exercises 8.2 and 8.3 covers a wide range of concepts such as percentage, profit or loss, tax, and compound interest. Exercise 8.1 Exercise 8.2  Exercise 8.3 Chapter 9: Algebraic Expressions and Identities  The chapter Algebraic Expressions and Identities briefs the basics of monomials, binomials, and polynomials in an algebraic expression. The problems in this chapter are discussed in five exercises, Exercises 9.1 and 9.2 covers the basic concepts of terms related to polynomials and operations on the expressions. Exercise 9.3 and 9.4 are based on the multiplications of polynomials while Exercise 9.5 discussed the standard algebraic identities. Exercise 9.1 Exercise 9.2 Exercise 9.3 Exercise 9.4 Exercise 9.5 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 10: Visualising Solid Shapes  This chapter provides the understanding of different solids shapes when visualized in different dimensions and various terms used to describe their properties. The chapter explains this in three different exercises. Here exercises 10.1 and 10.2 are based on the concept of the visualisation of different solid shapes at different positions and the mapping spaces around the observer. Though, Exercise 10.3 discussed the terms like faces, edges, vertices, and relation between them, related to a solid shape.  Exercise 10.1 Exercise 10.2 Exercise 10.3 Chapter 11: Mensuration Mensuration is the chapter that deals with the measurement or the calculations related to determine the area, perimeter, volume of various geometrical figures like square, cube, rectangle, cuboid, cylinder, and triangle, etc. This chapter consists of only four exercises in which Exercises 11.1 and 11.2 deal with problems related to the areas of different geometrical shapes, combination of shapes, and every-day life examples. However, Exercises 11.3 and 11.4 discussed the terminology related to 3-Dimensional shapes. Exercise 11.1 Exercise 11.2 Exercise 11.3 Exercise 11.4 Chapter 12: Exponents and Powers The chapter Exponents and powers cover the primary concepts such as laws of exponents and their applications. This chapter consists of only two exercises, Exercise 12.1 is specifically based on the laws of exponents, and Exercise 12.2 deals with the problems using the applications of power to write large numbers in exponents and vice-versa. Exercise 12.1 Exercise 12.2 Chapter 13: Direct and Inverse Proportions This chapter gives a detailed explanation of inverse and direct proportions through problems discussed in two exercises. In which Exercise 13.1 contains problems to determine the direct proportions between any quantity and Exercise 13.2 deals with the questions from the indirect inverse. Exercise 13.1 Exercise 13.2 Chapter 14: Factorisation  This chapter comprises the problems on the factors of natural numbers and algebraic expressions, factorisation by regrouping terms, factorisation using identities, division of algebraic expressions. The chapter includes four exercises out of which exercises 14.1 and 14.2 are based on the topic factorisations and their application while exercises 14.3 and 14.4 emphasize the division of algebraic expressions. Exercise 14.1 Exercise 14.2 Exercise 14.3 Exercise 14.4 Chapter 15: Introduction to Graphs This chapter is all about the basic understanding of the graphs, kinds of graphs, etc. It is mainly explained using three exercises, Exercise 15.1 deals with problems from introduction to graphs and terminology related to it while, problems in Exercises 15.2 and 15.3 provided emphasis on the construction of different types of graphs and their applications. Exercise 15.1 Exercise 15.2 Exercise 15.3 Chapter 16: Playing with Numbers All the above-mentioned chapters basically helped to learn about various kinds of numbers and their different properties likewise in this chapter the concept of numbers is discussed in a more general way. This chapter includes two exercises only, Exercise 16.1 and 16.2 which contains fun activities, puzzles, etc. such as divisibility tests to determine any missing number in a series of numbers.  Exercise 16.1 Exercise 16.2 My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths Next GeeksforGeeks School Recommended Articles Page : NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths 19, Apr 21 Algebraic Solutions of Linear Inequalities in One Variable and their Graphical Representation - Linear Inequalities | Class 11 Maths 10, Nov 20 RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths 20, Apr 21 RD Sharma Class 11 Solutions for Maths 02, Jun 21 RD Sharma Class 12 Solutions for Maths 03, Jun 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 1 Number System - Exercise 1.5 17, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.1 24, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.1 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.2 06, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.2 26, Feb 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 5 Continuity And Differentiability - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 17, Apr 21 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 5 Complex Numbers And Quadratic Equations - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 | Set 2 22, Mar 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.3 | Set 2 21, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.3 01, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Introduction to Euclid's Geometry - Exercise 5.2 25, Dec 20 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part II - Chapter 9 Differential Equations-Exercise -9.2 06, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : NCERT Solutions Class-8 Class 8 NCERT School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 8 Number System and Arithmetic What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Exhaustible and Inexhaustible Natural Resources Photoshop Slice Tool Multiple Reflections of Light Most visited in NCERT Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Application of Derivatives - Exercise 6.2| Set 2 × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !