NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Equation of a Line in 3D Algebra Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Statistics Calculus Invertible Functions Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors Matrices and its Types | Class 12 Maths Types of Functions | Class 12 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Domain constraints in DBMS Basic Properties of Electric Charge Bayes' Theorem Graphs of Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Trigonometry | Class 12 Maths Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Geometry Angles Between two Lines in 3D Space Degree of Relations in DBMS Second Order Derivatives in Continuity and Differentiability | Class 12 Maths Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Application of Derivatives - Exercise 6.2| Set 2 Multiplication Theorem Mensuration Bernoulli Trials and Binomial Distribution - Probability Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Equation of a Line in 3D Algebra Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Statistics Calculus Invertible Functions Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors Matrices and its Types | Class 12 Maths Types of Functions | Class 12 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Domain constraints in DBMS Basic Properties of Electric Charge Bayes' Theorem Graphs of Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Trigonometry | Class 12 Maths Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Geometry Angles Between two Lines in 3D Space Degree of Relations in DBMS Second Order Derivatives in Continuity and Differentiability | Class 12 Maths Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Application of Derivatives - Exercise 6.2| Set 2 Multiplication Theorem Mensuration Bernoulli Trials and Binomial Distribution - Probability Improve Article Save Article Like Article NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths Last Updated : 22 Apr, 2021 NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths provides a solid conceptual base for all the topics included in CBSE Class 12 Maths Syllabus. It covers all the important theorems and formulae with detailed explanations to promote a better conceptual understanding in students. The solutions provided by GeeksforGeeks help students to build a deeper understanding of the concepts like Matrices & Determinants, Integrals, Differentials, Etc. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Chapter 1: Relations and Functions The Chapter Relation and functions discuss the introduction of relations and functions, types of relation, types of functions, the composition of functions and invertible function, binary operations, and miscellaneous examples. Here, are total five exercises covered in this chapter. Exercise 1.1 is only based upon the topic types of relations: reflexive, symmetric, transitive, and equivalence relations while the rest of the exercises 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 are based on one to one and onto functions, composite functions, the inverse of a function. However, miscellaneous exercises cover standard problems based on all the mentioned topics of this chapter. Exercise 1.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 1.2  Exercise 1.3 Exercise 1.4 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 2: Inverse Trigonometric Functions Inverse Trigonometric Functions of NCERT Class 12 Maths, gives an account of various topics such as the remarks based on basic concepts of inverse trigonometric functions, properties of inverse trigonometric functions, and miscellaneous examples. These concepts are explained very well through examples. Solutions to the exercises from the chapter can be accessed from here. Definition, range, domain, principal value branch. Graphs of inverse trigonometric functions Elementary properties of inverse trigonometric functions. Exercise 2.1 Exercise 2.2 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 3: Matrices In Chapter 3 of NCERT textbook, we shall see the definition of a matrix, types of matrices, equality of matrices, operations on matrices such as the addition of matrices and multiplication of a matrix by a scalar, properties of matrix addition, properties of scalar multiplication, multiplication of matrices, properties of multiplication of matrices, transpose of a matrix, properties of the transpose of the matrix, symmetric and skew-symmetric matrices, elementary operation or transformation of a matrix, the inverse of a matrix by elementary operations and miscellaneous examples. Here, you can find the exercise solution links for the topics covered in this chapter. Concept, notation, order, equality, types of matrices, zero and identity matrix, transpose of a matrix, symmetric and skew-symmetric matrices. Operation on matrices: Addition and multiplication and multiplication with a scalar. Simple properties of addition, multiplication, and scalar multiplication. Non- commutativity of multiplication of matrices and existence of non-zero matrices whose product is the zero matrix (restricted to square matrices of order 2). Concept of elementary row and column operations. Invertible matrices and proof of the uniqueness of inverse, if it exists; (Here all matrices will have real entries). Exercise 3.1 Exercise 3.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 3.3 Exercise 3.4 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 4: Determinants Chapter 4 of 12 Class NCERT Maths Solution discusses the topic of determinants. Students will get to learn about the definition and meaning of determinants, remarks based on the order of determinants, properties of determinants, finding the area of a triangle using determinants, minors and cofactors of determinants, adjoint of a matrix, the inverse of a matrix, applications of determinants, and matrices and miscellaneous examples. Below we have links provided to each exercise solution covered in this chapter. The determinant of a square matrix (up to 3 × 3 matrices), properties of determinants, minors, co-factors, and applications of determinants in finding the area of a triangle. Adjoint and inverse of a square matrix. Consistency, inconsistency, and the number of solutions of a system of linear equations by examples, solving system of linear equations in two or three variables (having unique solution) using the inverse of a matrix.  Exercise 4.1 Exercise 4.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 4.3 Exercise 4.4 Exercise 4.5 Exercise 4.6 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 5: Continuity and Differentiability Chapter 5 of NCERT textbook starts with the definition of continuity. Students go on to learn about continuity, algebra of continuous function, definition and meaning of differentiability, derivatives of composite functions, derivative of implicit functions, the derivative of inverse trigonometric functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, logarithmic differentiation, derivatives of functions in parametric forms, second-order derivatives, mean value theorem via miscellaneous examples. Here, students can find the exercises explaining these concepts properly with solutions. Continuity and differentiability, the derivative of composite functions, chain rule, the derivative of inverse trigonometric functions, derivative of implicit functions. Concept of exponential and logarithmic functions. Derivatives of logarithmic and exponential functions. Logarithmic differentiation, derivative of functions expressed in parametric forms. Second-order derivatives. Rolle?s and Lagrange?s Mean Value Theorems (without proof) and their geometric interpretation.  Exercise 5.2 Exercise 5.3 Exercise 5.4 Exercise 5.5 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 5.6 Exercise 5.7 Exercise 5.8 Chapter 6: Applications of Derivatives Chapter 6 of NCERT textbook, provides a definition of derivatives, rate of change of quantities, increasing and decreasing functions, tangents and normals, approximations, maxima and minima, first derivative test, maximum and minimum values of a function in a closed interval, and miscellaneous examples. Here, students can find the exercises explaining these concepts properly. Applications of derivatives: rate of change of bodies, increasing/decreasing functions, tangents and normals, use of derivatives in approximation, maxima and minima (first derivative test motivated geometrically and second derivative test is given as a provable tool). Simple problems (that illustrate basic principles and understanding of the subject as well as real-life situations).  Exercise 6.1 Exercise 6.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 6.3 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 6.4 Exercise 6.5 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise Set 1, Set 2 My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths Next CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Recommended Articles Page : NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths 19, Apr 21 Algebraic Solutions of Linear Inequalities in One Variable and their Graphical Representation - Linear Inequalities | Class 11 Maths 10, Nov 20 RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths 20, Apr 21 RD Sharma Class 11 Solutions for Maths 02, Jun 21 RD Sharma Class 12 Solutions for Maths 03, Jun 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 1 Number System - Exercise 1.5 17, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.1 24, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.1 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.2 06, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.2 26, Feb 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 5 Continuity And Differentiability - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 17, Apr 21 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 5 Complex Numbers And Quadratic Equations - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 | Set 2 22, Mar 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.3 | Set 2 21, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.3 01, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Introduction to Euclid's Geometry - Exercise 5.2 25, Dec 20 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part II - Chapter 9 Differential Equations-Exercise -9.2 06, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : mayurigrover @mayurigrover Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : NCERT Solutions Class-12 Class 12 NCERT School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 12 Difference between write() and writelines() function in Python How to Connect Python with SQL Database? Number System and Arithmetic Inverse Trigonometric Identities Libraries in Python Most visited in NCERT Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 7 Permutations And Combinations - Exercise 7.1 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1 NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Class 9 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 4 Linear Equations in two variables - Exercise 4.1 × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !