Number System and Arithmetic - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article Number System and Arithmetic Last Updated : 11 Nov, 2021 The number system is a system for representing numbers on the Number Line using a collection of symbols and rules. These symbols, which run from 0 to 9, are referred to as digits. The Number System is used to conduct mathematical computations ranging from complex scientific calculations to simple counting of Toys for a Kid or the number of chocolates left in the box.  However, Arithmetic is a field of mathematics that studies the characteristics of classical operations on numbers, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, exponentiation, and root extraction. Arithmetic is a fundamental aspect of number theory, which, along with algebra, geometry, and analysis, is regarded as one of the premieres of modern mathematics. The phrases arithmetic and higher arithmetic were used as synonyms for number theory until the early twentieth century, and are now occasionally used to refer to a wider section of number theory. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Table of Contents  Number System Arithmetic Number System  Number System is a method of representing Numbers on the Number Line with the help of a set of Symbols and rules. These symbols range from 0-9 and are termed digits. Number System is used to perform mathematical computations ranging from great scientific calculations to calculations like counting the number of Toys for a Kid or Number chocolates remaining in the box. Number Systems comprise multiple types based on the base value for its digits. Further explanation about numbers and number system is provided below: Number System Operations on Real numbers Rational Numbers Decimal Expansion of Real Numbers Laws of exponents for real numbers Euclid?s Division Algorithm Arithmetic Arithmetic is the foundation of how arithmetic works and how a person may use numbers to solve problems. It dives into the links between numbers and how they might affect one another when a person is trying to solve an issue. Learning more about arithmetic math, how it differs from other forms of math, the numerous topics a person will study, and how it can be used in the real world may help anybody decide why they want to learn more about it. It can also point them in the right direction if they need more support or want to learn something new. Anyone may extend their math skills to the moon and beyond by gradually studying more arithmetic. Following are the major topics covered in arithmetic along with their corresponding divisions:  HCF and LCM Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic Divisibility Rules Roots Root, in mathematics, a solution to an equation, usually expressed as a number or an algebraic formula. There exists a special positive real number x such that xn = a, if a is a positive real number and n is a positive integer. So, n?a or a1/n is the number that represents the (principal) nth root of a. The integer n is referred to as the root?s index. When n = 2 is used, the root is referred to as the square root, and it is written as ?a. The cube root of a is 3?a. The special negative nth root of an is called principal if an is negative and n is odd. The principal cube root of ?27, for example, is ?3. If a whole number (positive integer) has a logical nth root that is, one that can be expressed as a typical fraction, then the root must be an integer. Since 22 is less than 5, 5 has no rational square root. Here is a list of the topics that may help to understand roots more deeply: nth roots of a number Squares and Square Roots Cubes and Cube Roots Number Game A number game is any of a variety of puzzles and games that include mathematical concepts. Mathematical games and puzzles range from simple amusements to complex problems, some of which have never been solved. Arithmetic, algebra, number theory, group theory, combinatory (problems of configurations or designs), symbolic logic, can all be included. The origins of number games and mathematical recreations, as well as the values on which they are based, are covered in details, such as explanations of the puzzles, games, and recreations are discussed in the articles below: Playing with Numbers Game of Numbers Letters for Digits Ratio, Fractions, and Percentages The discussions of ratio, proportion, and percentages in this free course are all about splitting everything into bits. For example, if there are 200 people in a small village and 50 of them are children, this can be expressed as a percentage: 25% of the village population is children; or as a ratio: one child for every four adults; or as a proportion: the proportion of children in the village population is a fifth. Following is the list of references that may help to understand more about this part of arithmetic: Ratios and Percentages Direct and Inverse Proportions Percent Change & Discounts Prices Related to Buying and Selling (Profit and Loss) Compound Interest  & Compound Interest Formula Sales Tax, Value Added Tax, and Goods and Services Tax Exponents The term ?exponents? refers to the repeated multiplication of the same element. The exponent, in this case, 3, represents the number of times the value is compounded. For instance, the shorthand for multiplying three copies of the number 2 is shown on the right-hand side of the equals sign as 2 × 2 × 2 = 8. The base is the thing that is being multiplied, which in this case is 5. Let?s learn more about the exponents in further articles as given below: Negative Exponents Laws of Exponents & Use of Exponents to Express Small Numbers in Standard Form My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous How to Reset Password in WordPress ? Next CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes Recommended Articles Page : Arithmetic Progression and Geometric Progression 24, May 21 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Sequences - Sequences and Series | Class 11 Maths 25, Nov 20 What is the difference between Arithmetic Progression and Geometric Progression? 01, Aug 21 What is the difference between Arithmetic and Algebra? 14, Aug 21 Difference between an Arithmetic Sequence and a Geometric Sequence 04, Oct 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.7 | Set 2 10, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.6 | Set 3 01, Apr 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.7 | Set 1 10, Jan 21 How to find Arithmetic Mean? 11, Aug 21 Arithmetic Progression ? Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths 07, Nov 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.2 | Set 2 10, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progression Exercise 9.1 01, Dec 20 Arithmetic Series 22, Jan 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.2 05, Dec 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.6 09, Dec 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.3 13, Dec 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.1 12, Dec 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.3 28, Dec 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.5 25, Dec 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.5 04, Jan 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.2 | Set 1 10, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 5.2 27, Feb 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.9 Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !