Probability in Maths - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Table of Contents GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Trigonometry Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Cumulative frequency curve Electric Potential and Potential Difference Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths Mensuration Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1 Improve Article Save Article Like Article Probability in Maths Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 03 Jun, 2021 Probability denotes the possibility of anything happening. It is a mathematical branch that deals with the occurrence of a random event. The value ranges from zero to one. Probability has been introduced in mathematics to estimate the likelihood of events occurring. Probability is described as the degree to which something is expected to occur. This is the fundamental probability principle, which is often found in the probability distribution, in which you can hear about the possible results of a random experiment. To determine the likelihood of a particular occurrence occurring, we must first determine the total number of potential outcomes. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Probability is a calculation of how likely an incident is to occur. Many events are impossible to forecast with absolute certainty. Using it, we can only estimate the likelihood of an occurrence occurring, i.e. how probable it is to occur. The probability will vary from 0 to 1, with 0 indicating an unlikely occurrence and 1 indicating a certain event. Table of Contents Theoretical Probability Experimental Probability Axiomatic Probability Theoretical Probability It is focused on the likelihood of anything occurring. The reasoning behind probability is the foundation of scientific probability. If a coin is flipped, the statistical chance of having a head is 1/2. An event?s statistical chance is the chance that the occurrence will occur. It is determined by dividing the number of desirable outcomes by the total number of outcomes is thus termed as theoretical probability and can be learned in the following articles: Chance and Probability Empirical Probability Probability Theory Practice Problems on Probability Experimental Probability It is founded on the results of an experiment. The experimental chance can be determined by dividing the total number of trials by the number of potential outcomes. For example, if a coin is flipped ten times and heads are reported six times, the experimental chance of heads is 6/10, or 3/5. Let?s discuss the experimental probability in the following articles: Experimental Probability Dependent and Independent Events Random Experiments Variance and Standard Deviation Frequency Distributions Axiomatic Probability A collection of laws or axioms that apply to all forms is established in axiomatic probability. Kolmogorov developed these axioms, which are known as Kolmogorov?s three axioms. The axiomatic approach to probability quantifies the likelihood of events occurring or not occurring. This definition is covered in detail in the axiomatic probability articles, which include Kolmogorov?s three laws (axioms) as well as numerous examples. The chance of an event or result happening depending on the existence of a prior event or outcome is known as conditional probability. Following are the articles based on the axiomatic probability: Axiomatic Approach to Probability Conditional Probability and Independence Multiplication Theorem Bayes? Theorem Probability Distribution Binomial Random Variables and Binomial Distribution Binomial Mean and Standard Deviation Bernoulli Trials and Binomial Distribution Discrete Random Variables My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Tensorflow.js tf.Tensor class .bufferSync() Method Next Tensorflow.js tf.keep() Function Recommended Articles Page : Conditional Probability and Independence - Probability | Class 12 Maths 22, Nov 20 Variance and Standard Deviation - Probability | Class 11 Maths 29, Oct 20 Binomial Mean and Standard Deviation - Probability | Class 12 Maths 30, Nov 20 Discrete Random Variables - Probability | Class 12 Maths 16, Nov 20 Binomial Random Variables and Binomial Distribution - Probability | Class 12 Maths 19, Nov 20 Practice Problems on Probability | Class 9 Maths 01, Mar 21 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Number System in Maths 22, Sep 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression ? Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths 25, Oct 20 Distance formula - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths 25, Oct 20 Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers | Class 8 Maths 10, Nov 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !