ReactJS Tutorials - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Table of Contents CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Web Development HTML Tutorials Table of Contents CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Web Development HTML Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials Last Updated : 08 Oct, 2021 React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It?s ?V? in MVC. ReactJS is an open-source, component-based front-end library responsible only for the view layer of the application. It is maintained by Facebook. React uses a declarative paradigm that makes it easier to reason about your application and aims to be both efficient and flexible. It designs simple views for each state in your application, and React will efficiently update and render just the right component when your data changes. The declarative view makes your code more predictable and easier to debug. Prerequisite: To start learning to React you have to know a few important things.  Top 5 Skills You Must Know Before You Learn ReactJS   Learner to guide, you can follow this article:  A Complete Guide For Beginners. How to learn React? Reasons to learn React: React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. React.js is an open-source, component-based front-end library responsible only for the view layer of the application. It is an MVC architecture-based library that plays the role of ?C? which means control. React uses a declarative paradigm that makes it easier to reason about your application and aims to be both efficient and flexible. It designs simple views for each state in your application, and React will efficiently update and render just the right component when your data changes. The declarative view makes your code more predictable and easier to debug. Features of React.js: There are unique features are available on React because that it is widely popular. Use JSX: It is faster than normal JavaScript as it performs optimizations while translating to regular JavaScript. It makes it easier for us to create templates. Virtual DOM: Virtual DOM exists which is like a lightweight copy of the actual DOM. So for every object that exists in the original DOM, there is an object for that in React Virtual DOM. It is exactly the same, but it does not have the power to directly change the layout of the document. Manipulating DOM is slow, but manipulating Virtual DOM is fast as nothing gets drawn on the screen. One-way Data Binding: This feature gives you better control over your application. Component: A Component is one of the core building blocks of React. In other words, we can say that every application you will develop in React will be made up of pieces called components. Components make the task of building UIs much easier. You can see a UI broken down into multiple individual pieces called components and work on them independently and merge them all in a parent component which will be your final UI. Performance: React.js use JSX, which is faster compared to normal JavaScript and HTML. Virtual DOM is a less time taking procedure to update webpages content. Example: App.js import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
 
var name = "Learner";
 
var element = <h1>Hello, { name }.Welcome to GeeksforGeeks.< /h1>;
  
ReactDOM.render(
    element, 
    document.getElementById("root")
); Output: Learn more about ReactJS: Introduction to ReactJS Setting up Development Environment ReactJS Complete References: ReactJS Basic Concepts Complete Reference ReactJS Components Complete Reference ReactJS Props Complete Reference ReactJS Hooks Complete Reference ReactJS Advanced Guides Complete Reference My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Time Complexity and Space Complexity Program to implement Singly Linked List in C++ using class How to Create a Social Media App on Android Studio? Difference between Class and Object Most Visited Articles Software and its Types C++ Program to check if a given String is Palindrome or not Fix "Unable to locate adb within SDK" in Android Studio How to Install and Use Metamask on Google Chrome? Passing a function as a parameter in C++ × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !