School Chemistry Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Category Archives: School Chemistry Brownian Motion and Diffusion Everything in our environment is made up of microscopic pieces or particles. Atoms or molecules are the particles that make up matter. Particles make up? Read More Picked Class 9 School Chemistry School Learning Liquification of Gases Suggested topic ? Liquification of Gases Matter is defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. Modern scientists divide matter into two categories: physical? Read More Picked Class 9 School Chemistry School Learning What are Hydrocarbons? Alkanes and cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons with no double or triple bond functional groups, depending on whether the carbon atoms of the molecule are organized in? Read More Picked Class 10 School Chemistry School Learning Some Important Compounds of Boron Boron is a non-metal, it is the fifth element in the periodic table. It is represented by the B symbol and the atomic number of? Read More Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning How to Balance Chemical Equations? A chemical equation is a way of explaining a chemical reaction using symbols and equations for the chemicals involved in the process. A balanced chemical? Read More Picked Class 10 School Chemistry School Learning Chemical Properties of Carbon Compounds Hydrocarbons are the most abundant carbon compounds such as alkanes, alkenes, and alkynes. We?ll now discuss some of the chemical properties of hydrocarbons, which are carbon compounds.? Read More Picked Class 10 School Chemistry School Learning Chemical Bonding ? Definition, Rules, Types Chemical bonding is the formation of a chemical bond between two or more atoms, molecules, or ions that results in the formation of a chemical? Read More Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning Some Important Compounds of Carbon and Silicon Silicon belongs to the same family of elements as Carbon in the periodic table, but its chemical reactivity differs significantly from that of similar carbon? Read More Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning Extraction of Aluminium Aluminium has a lower density than other common metals, about one-third that of steel. When exposed to air, it forms a protective layer of oxide? Read More Picked Class 12 School Chemistry School Learning Chemical Equations ? Definition, Representation, Types Chemical reactions are the processes that result in the formation of new substances with new properties. Chemical reactions cause changes in the environment. A rearrangement? Read More Picked Class 10 School Chemistry School Learning Structure and Properties of Water Water is a valuable natural resource. Water is essential for the survival of all living things. We can?t imagine a world without water. Water is? Read More Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning Molecular Orbital Theory The Molecular Orbital Theory is a chemical bonding theory developed at the turn of the twentieth century by F. R. Hund and R. S. Mulliken? Read More Picked Class 11 School Chemistry School Learning Phosphorus ? Occurrence, Properties, Uses, Effects Phosphorus is an essential element for life, primarily through phosphates, which are compounds containing phosphate ion. Phosphates are a component of DNA, RNA, ATP, and? Read More Picked Class 12 School Chemistry School Learning Diffusion in Solids, Liquids, and Gases While the meal is being cooked in the kitchen, people may smell the food while sitting in the drawing-room. Because of diffusion in the air,? Read More Picked Class 9 School Chemistry School Learning Ammonia ? Properties, Preparation, Uses, Effects Ammonia is made up of hydrogen and nitrogen. It is known as ammonium hydroxide in its aqueous form. This inorganic compound has a strong odour.? Read More Picked Class 12 School Chemistry School Learning Page 1 of 17 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 ... » Last » What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in School Chemistry Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Pure and Impure Substances Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Exhaustible and Inexhaustible Natural Resources Most Visited in School Chemistry Chemical Indicators - Definition, Types, Examples Characteristics of Chemical Reactions Separation of Mixtures What are the Effects of Acid Rain on Taj Mahal? Exceptions in Physical Properties of Metals and Non-Metals × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !