Testimonials - Words that keep us going - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Write an Article Write Articles Pick Topics to write Guidelines to Write Get Technical Writing Internship Write an Interview Experience C C++ Java Python Machine Learning Interview Preparation Interview Preparation For Software Developers Must Coding Questions - Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions - Topic-wise Company-wise Practice Problems Company Preparation Competitive Programming Software Design-Patterns Company-wise Interview Experience Experienced - Interview Experiences Internship - Interview Experiences Practice @Geeksforgeeks Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide & Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advance Data Structures Matrix String All Data Structures Programming Languages C C++ Java Python C# Go Lang SQL PHP Scala Perl Kotlin Web Technologies HTML CSS Bootstrap JavaScript Jquery ReactJS NodeJS AngularJS Django Framework Tutorial Library Python Tutorial Django Tutorial Pandas Tutorial Kivy Tutorial Tkinter Tutorial OpenCV Tutorial Selenium Tutorial Computer Science Subjects Engineering Mathematics Operating Systems DBMS Computer Network Computer Organization & Architecture TOC Compiler Design Digital Elec. & Logic Design Software Engineering GATE 2021 GATE CS Notes Gate Corner Previous Year GATE Papers Last Minute Notes (LMNs) Important Topic - GATE 2021 GATE 2021 Course UGC NET / ISRO UGC NET Notes - Paper II UGC NET Notes - Paper III UGC NET Solved Papers ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO Official Keys ISRO CSE Syllabus QUIZ Section C Quiz C++ Quiz Java Quiz Python Quiz Data Structures Quiz Algorithms Quiz Aptitude Quiz Topic-wise MCQs Puzzles GeeksforGeeks Initiatives Campus Ambassador Program Geek Of The Month Geek On The TOP Campus Geek Of The Month Technical Scripter Event Computer Science Projects Testimonials ? Words that keep us going Drop your Testimonial here Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Suraj Kath Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Siddharth Rajpal Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Read More Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say ?Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks?. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Kyoo San Martin Monroy Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say ?Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks?. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Read More Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Vipin Khullar Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Vivek Kumar Thakur Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Read More Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Murlidar Setty Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Read More Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Milind Shah Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Read More Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Vaishali Pari Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Read More Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Abhiraj Smit Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Read More Was selected in GS and Ca First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can?t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Kanhaya Namdhar Was selected in GS and Cap One through campus placement at IIT Kanpur First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can?t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Read More Preparing for Google inte Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I?m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Jean Gagnair Preparing for Google interview Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I?m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Read More What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Time Complexity and Space Complexity Program to implement Singly Linked List in C++ using class C++ Program to check if a given String is Palindrome or not Fix "Unable to locate adb within SDK" in Android Studio Most Visited Articles How to Install and Use Metamask on Google Chrome? Count of subarrays with average K Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Python Random Module Top 50 String Coding Problems for Interviews × × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !