Trigonometry - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Related Articles Trigonometry Heights and Distances ? Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Tangent to a circle ? Circles | Class 10 Maths Variance and Standard Deviation ? Probability | Class 11 Maths Trigonometry GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Table of Contents Trigonometry Heights and Distances ? Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Tangent to a circle ? Circles | Class 10 Maths Variance and Standard Deviation ? Probability | Class 11 Maths Trigonometry GeeksforGeeks School Section formula ? Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Algebra Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Statistics Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Calculus Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Probability in Maths Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Geometry Roots of Quadratic Equations Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Improve Article Save Article Like Article Trigonometry Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 03 Jun, 2021 Hipparchus, a Greek mathematician, introduced the idea of trigonometry, which is one of the most important branches of mathematics in history. In this section, we?ll look at the relationship between the sides and angles of a right-angled triangle. The fundamentals of trigonometry describe three main functions: sine, cosine, and tangent. Trigonometry is a branch of mathematics that uses trigonometric ratios to determine the angles and incomplete sides of a triangle. Angles are measured in either radians or degrees. Angles in trigonometry that are widely used are 0°, 30°, 45°, 60°, and 90°. Attention reader! All those who say programming isn't for kids, just haven't met the right mentors yet. Join the  Demo Class for First Step to Coding Course, specifically designed for students of class 8 to 12.  The students will get to learn more about the world of programming in these free classes which will definitely help them in making a wise career choice in the future. Table of Contents Basic Trigonometry Inverse Trigonometry Applications of Trigonometry Basic Trigonometry Basic Trigonometry covers, tangent, sine, and cosine are the names given to the three ratios. It can then be expanded to include other ratios and trigonometry in the Cartesian Plane. These trigonometry studies will cover the following topics: Trigonometry in the Cartesian Plane, Graphs of Trigonometric Functions, and Trigonometric Identities are all topics covered in this course. Following are the articles that covers all the topics in the same:  Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle Trigonometric Ratios of Some Specific Angles Reciprocal of Trigonometric Ratios Trigonometric Identities Trigonometric Functions Inverse Trigonometry Inverse trigonometric functions are essentially the inverse functions of the fundamental trigonometric functions sine, cosine, tangent, cotangent, secant, and cosecant. These functions are also known as arcs functions, anti-trigonometric functions, and cyclometer functions. These trigonometry inverse functions are used to calculate the angle for each of the trigonometry ratios. In physics, mechanics, geometry, and navigation, inverse trigonometry functions are widely used as: Basic Concepts Graphs of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Properties of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Applications of Trigonometry Trigonometry is used to calculate the height of a structure or a mountain. Using trigonometric functions, the distance of a structure from the perspective and the elevation angle can easily calculate the height of a building. It does not have particular applications in solving functional problems, but it is used in a variety of fields. For example, trigonometry is used in the development of computer music: as you might know, sound moves in the form of waves, and this wave pattern is used in the development of computer music by passing it through a sine or cosine function. Below are few examples of how trigonometry and its functions can be used as: Heights and Distances Applications of Trigonometry My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Variance and Standard Deviation - Probability | Class 11 Maths Next GeeksforGeeks School Recommended Articles Page : Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Some Applications of Trigonometry - Exercise 12.1 | Set 3 11, May 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Some Applications of Trigonometry - Exercise 12.1 | Set 2 11, May 21 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Graphs of Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Trigonometry | Class 12 Maths 07, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Introduction To Trigonometry - Exercise 8.1 08, Dec 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Introduction To Trigonometry - Exercise 8.3 15, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Introduction To Trigonometry - Exercise 8.2 10, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Introduction To Trigonometry - Exercise 8.4 07, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 9 Some Application of Trigonometry - Exercise 9.1 | Set 1 12, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 9 Some Application of Trigonometry - Exercise 9.1 | Set 2 11, Jan 21 Applications of Trigonometry 02, Apr 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Some Applications of Trigonometry - Exercise 12.1 | Set 1 11, May 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most popular in Class 10 What are Web Services? Number System and Arithmetic Variables in Scratch Programming Internet and its Services Rusting of Iron - Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention Most visited in Class 11 Cloud Deployment Models Expressions in Python Python Tokens and Character Sets What is the Difference between Interactive and Script Mode in Python Programming? Newton's Law of Cooling × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !