Web Development - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning Related Articles ? Table of Contents Web Development HTML Tutorials CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Table of Contents Web Development HTML Tutorials CSS Tutorials JavaScript Tutorial Tailwind CSS Bootstrap Tutorials jQuery Tutorials AngularJS Tutorials ReactJS Tutorials PHP Tutorials NodeJS Tutorials SQL Tutorial Web Development Last Updated : 13 Sep, 2021   Web development refers to the building, creating, and maintaining of websites. It includes aspects such as web design, web publishing, web programming, and database management. It is the creation of an application that works over the internet i.e. websites. The word Web Development is made up of two words, that is: Web: It refers to websites, web pages or anything that works over the internet. Development: Building the application from scratch. Web Development can be classified into two ways: Frontend Development Backend Development    Frontend Development: The part of a website that the user interacts directly is termed as front end. It is also referred to as the ?client side? of the application. HTML: HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. It is used to design the front end portion of web pages using markup language. It acts as a skeleton for a website since it is used to make the structure of a website. CSS: Cascading Style Sheets fondly referred to as CSS is a simply designed language intended to simplify the process of making web pages presentable. It is used to style our website. JavaScript: JavaScript is a scripting language used to provide a dynamic behavior to our website. Bootstrap: Bootstrap is a free and open-source tool collection for creating responsive websites and web applications. It is the most popular CSS framework for developing responsive, mobile-first websites. Nowadays, the websites are perfect for all the browsers (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) and for all sizes of screens (Desktop, Tablets, Phablets, and Phones). Bootstrap 4 Bootstrap 5 Frontend Frameworks and Libraries: AngularJS React.js VueJS jQuery Bootstrap Material UI Tailwind CSS jQuery UI Some other libraries and frameworks are: Handlebar.js Backbone.js, Ember.js etc. Backend Development: Backend is the server side of a website. It is the part of the website that users cannot see and interact. It is the portion of software that does not come in direct contact with the users. It is used to store and arrange data. PHP: PHP is a server-side scripting language designed specifically for web development. Java: Java is one of the most popular and widely used programming language. It is highly scalable. Python: Python is a programming language that lets you work quickly and integrate systems more efficiently. Node.js: Node.js is an open source and cross-platform runtime environment for executing JavaScript code outside a browser. Back End Frameworks: The list of back end frameworks are: Express, Django, Rails, Laravel, Spring, etc. Web Development Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery BootStrap React JS AngularJS PHP Node.js Some Important Links on Web Development: Begin Web Development with a Head Start Why do you need a Responsive Website Top 10 Frameworks for Web Applications Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference 10 Web Development and Web Design Facts That You Should Know How can I start to learn Web Development ? The Future Of Web Development Best Books to Learn Front-End Web Development Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Things You Should Know As a Web Developer How to choose a Technology Stack for Web Application Development ? Top 10 Tools That Every Web Developer Must Try Once Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details DSA Self Paced Course View Details Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Time Complexity and Space Complexity Program to implement Singly Linked List in C++ using class How to Create a Social Media App on Android Studio? Difference between Class and Object Most Visited Articles Software and its Types C++ Program to check if a given String is Palindrome or not Fix "Unable to locate adb within SDK" in Android Studio How to Install and Use Metamask on Google Chrome? Passing a function as a parameter in C++ × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !